KING OF THE WIND 



Marguerite Henry 

WINNER OF THE NEWBERY MEDAL 
THE GREAT SON 

THE MORNING FOG HAD LIFTED, giving way to a clear day. Nearly 
all the people of Windsor, Ontario, and thousands of visitors were surging 
into Kenilworth Park, filling the stands and overflowing to 
the infield. It was the greatest crowd ever to attend a race in Canada. For 
this was the day of the match race between Man o' War, the eat American 
horse, and Sir Barton, the pride of Canada. 



Bands were playing, first an American air, then a Canadian air. Flags of 
both countries draped the grandstand and fluttered against the sky. 



Under a covered paddock Man o’ War, affectionately 
known as Big Red, was being saddled for his twenty-first race. As the trainer 
was about to tighten the girth strap, he turned to the jockey at his elbow. 

"Let Red run his own race," he said, "Don't hold him in." 



The freckle-faced jockey nodded. He looked over at the clock. In exactly 
twenty minutes Man o War would meet Sir Barton, the horse that had won 
the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness, the Belmont, 
in one year. Sir Barton was a Triple Crown champion, a horse to be 
reckoned with ! 



The trainer finished his careful check of saddle- cloths and weight pads, 
and signaled to the jockey, who swung up on Man o' War. He had ten 
minutes to walk him around the saddling ring, ten minutes to calm him 
down. Without this ritual, Big Red was as unruly as a colt. 



Across the paddock the trainer caught the eye of Samuel Riddle, owner of 
Man o' War. They watched the ripple of the smooth muscles as the horse 
walked, the curving of his powerful neck, the burnished red-gold of his coat. 
Their glances locked. "Big Red's in fine fettle," they were agreeing 
with each other. "He’s in top form." 



Meanwhile, in Sir Barton's camp, well-laid plans were being rehearsed. Sir 
Barton was to run an explosion race. Instead of matching speed for speed 
around the track, he was to start off with a wild spurt and run Man o' War off 
his feet. It was a good plan, for everyone knew there was no greater sprinter 
than Sir Barton. If, at the very start of the race, he could get Man o' War to 
overreach his usual stride, he might never find it again. The race could be 
won in the first furlong. 



The bugle sounded. Sir Barton, a dark chestnut horse, and Man o' War, the 
red-gold stallion, were paraded past the judges' stand, past the grandstand, 
past the stand where moving-picture men were grinding their cameras. Man 
o' War heard the roar of the crowds. He smelled his opponent. But his eyes 
were fixed on the track, spread out clean and inviting before him. He knew 
what it meant. Business! His business. Racing! He had walked enough. He 
was ready to go ! 



Now he was moving toward the barrier, plunging against it nervously, 
trying to spring it. Sir Barton caught his excitement. He strained against the 
webbing. And almost at once it was sprung. 



Like a two-horse team the golden-red horse and the dark chestnut were oh 
together. According to plan, Sir Barton's jockey began using the whip, and 
the Canadian horse shot to the front in one of the fastest sprints in history. 




Man o' War's jockey was holding him back, saving speed for the finish. 
But Man o' War had other ideas. He fought for his head. He pulled at the bit. 
He was in business for himself! 



And then the jockey remembered the trainer's words: "Let Red run his own 
race. Don't hold him in." He gave Man o' War his head. Like a dynamo on 
the loose, Big Red leaped out. He was a machine with pistons for legs, 
pistons that struck out in perfect rhythm. He caught Sir Barton. He flew past 
him in great long leaps. 



It was Man o' War who was running the explosion race. It was Man o’ War 
who was running Sir Barton on his feet! 



The jockey looked back. He saw the Canadian horse hopelessly trying to 
recover his own pace. The race was as good as won. It was won! Man o War 
passed the finish post seven lengths ahead. 



The crowds swept onto the track, throwing walking sticks, hats, 
handkerchiefs, high in the air. They forgot whether they were Canadians or 
Americans. They had never seen a race like this. They surged toward the 
judges' platform where Man o' War was standing proudly by, while Samuel 
Riddle was accepting the gold trophy cup that the big horse had won. 



"Your horse can't be beaten!" Sir Barton's owner exclaimed as he shook 
Mr. Riddle's hand. 



Suddenly Big Red shied. He had heard the popping of the cork of a 
champagne bottle. Then his curiosity overcame him. He nosed closer, 
watching as the wine bubbled into the trophy cup. He was thirsty. He 
strained toward the cup. Mr. Riddle smiled. 



Bring me some water that is not too cold," he directed. 




While the crowd murmured in surprise, Mr. Riddle poured the champagne 
out on the turf. He wiped the cup with a clean handkerchief. Then he filled it 
with water. He held it toward the horse, and Man o' War drank out of the 
great gold cup. 



"He won it, didn't he?" Mr. Riddle asked, his voice strangely husky. 



A cheer went up from thirty thousand throats. It was a good ending to a 
good race! 



Sir Barton's owner was right. Big Red could not be beaten. Already the 
three-year-old colt had made five American records and two world records. 
He had proved himself a terrific sprinter over short distances and a powerful 
stayer over long ones. Even more remarkable, he had carried a handicap of 
more than 130 pounds, while his rivals carried 114 pounds, 108 pounds, 104 
pounds. 



No wonder the crowds took this great colt to their hearts! There was no 
telling what the future held in store for him. 



Friends had urged Mr. Riddle to send Man o War to England after the 
Windsor race. They wanted him to run in the famous Newmarket races, 
where his great ancestors had run. A victory at 

Newmarket would mean more to Big Red's admirers than all his smashing 
victories in America. For they had experienced a deep hurt when their 
favorite horse was excluded from the British Stud Book be- cause he was not 
all thoroughbred. To have him win at Newmarket would ease the hurt. 



But Big Red was never to race again. Mr. Riddle had come to a most 
important decision. On a night not long before the race in Canada, he had 
visited in New York with the judge who determined how much weight each 
horse should carry to make a race evenly matched. 



"Man o' War will soon be a four-year-old,” Mr. Riddle said. "What weight 
will you give him then?” 




The reply came without hesitation. "I'll have to give him more weight than 
ever a race horse carried,” the judge said. "Man o’ War is the greatest horse 
alive.” 



Samuel Riddle knew Mall o' War was so strong and swift that he had to 
carry more weight than other horses. He accepted the decision as fair. But he 
knew, too, that more weight might weaken Man o’ War's legs, might break 
his great fighting heart as well. It would be better to retire him in perfect 
condition, without a mark on him. Mr. Riddle made up his mind. After the 
match race with Sir Barton, he would withdraw Big Red from racing. 



Telling no one of his decision, he masked his sorrow in silence. Neither 
his trainer, nor his jockey, nor Man o' War's thousands of friends at the 
Canadian race suspected the truth. Alone, in that crowd of thirty thousand, 
Mr. Riddle knew that he was watching Big Red run his last race. 



When the roar and the tumult were over, he quietly gave out the news. 
Followers of Big Red were stunned. After Newmarket it would have seemed 
all right to retire Man o' War. His victory there would have been a fitting 
ending post to a great career. But now ... 



Friends, and strangers too, tried to persuade Man o' War’s owner to change 
his mind. Mr. Riddle only smiled in that quiet way of his. He knew that Big 
Red did not need victories at Newmarket to prove his pedigree. What did it 
matter if one of his great-great-granddams was a carthorse and had less than 
royal blood in her veins? What did it matter that she had kept him out of the 
Who's Who of the horse world? In male descent, Man o' War’s blood was 
traceable in unbroken line to the great Godolphin Arabian himself! 



And then Mr. Riddle began to think about the Godolphin Arabian. He had 
not laced at New- market either. And he had no pedigree at all. It had been 
lost. He had to write a new one with his own blood — the blood that flowed 
in the veins of his sons and daughters. 




Man o' War could do that too. The great son could follow in the footsteps 
of his famous ancestor. 

He could live on in his colts and grandcolts. They could win the races at 
Newmarket. 



But a was not easy for Mr. Riddle to convince his friends that this plan was 
the right one. Often he had to go back two hundred years and tea them the 
story of the Godolphin Arabian. 



THE FAST OF RAMADAN 

IN THE NORTHWESTERN SLICE OF AFRICA known as Morocco, a 
horseboy stood with broom in hand in the vast courtyard of the royal stables 
of the Sultan. He was waiting for dusk to fall. 



All day long he had eaten nothing. He had not even tasted the jujubes 
tucked in his turban, nor the enormous purple grapes that spilled over the 
palace wall into the stable yard. He had tried not to sniff the rich, warm 
fragrance of ripening pomegranates. For this was the sacred month of 
Ramadan when, day after day, all faithful Mohammedans neither 
eat nor drink from the dawn before sunrise until the moment after sunset. 



The boy Agba had not minded the fast for himself. It was part of his 
religion. But when Signor Achmet, Chief of the Grooms, commanded that 
the horses too observe the fast, Agba's dark eyes smoldered with anger. 



"It is the order of the Sultan!" the Signor had announced to the horseboys. 
And he had cuffed Agba on the head when the boy showed his disapproval. 



Of the twelve thousand hones in the Sultan's stables, Agba had charge of 
ten. He fed and watered them and polished their coats and cleaned their 
stalls. Best of all, he wheeled the whole string into the courtyard at one time 
for their exercise. 



There was one of the ten horses to whom Agba had lost his heart. She was 
a bay mare, as fleet as a gazelle, with eyes that studied him in whatever he 
did. The other nine horses he would lead out to the common water trough to 
drink. But for his bright bay he would fill a water cask from a pure spring 
beyond the palace gates. Then he would hold it while the mare sucked the 
water, her eyelashes brushing his fingers as she drank. For long moments 
after she had drunk her fill, she would gaze at him while the cool water 
dribbled from her muzzle onto his hands. 



It was the mare that worried Agba now as he worked to fill in the time 
until the hour of sunset. The courtyard was already swept clean, but Agba 
pushed his palm-leaf broom as if he were sweeping all his thoughts into a 
little mound for the wind to carry away. At last he hung his broom on an iron 
hook alongside an endless row of brooms and went to the mare. Her stall 
door was closed, so that the fragrance of late clover would not drift in to 
prick her appetite. He found her asleep, lying on her side, her great belly 
distended by the little colt soon to be born. Agba noticed, with a heavy 
feeling in his chest, that the fast was telling on the mare. He could read it in 
the sunken places above each eye, in the harshness of her coat. 



But soon the fast would be over. It was the last day of the month, and even 
now the sun was sinking below the gray-green olive trees that hinged the 
courtyard. 



There was no sound anywhere, not from the palace walls beyond, nor from 
the quarters over the stables where the horseboys lived. The whole world 
seemed to be holding its breath, waiting for dusk to fall. Small voices of 
insects and birds were beginning to pierce the quiet. Twilight toads piping 
on their bassoons. Crickets chirping. Wood doves cooing. And afar off in the 
Atlas Mountains a hyena began to laugh. These were forerunners of the 
darkness. It would be only a short time now. 



Agba turned toward the east, his eyes on the minaret of the mosque. It was 
a sharp needle pricking the blood-red reflection of the sun. He gazed fixedly 
at it until his eyes smarted. At last a figure in white robes emerged from the 
tower. It was the public crier. He was sounding his trumpet. He was crying 
four times to the four winds of heaven. The fast of Ramadan was at an end! 




The air went wild with noise. Twelve thousand horses recognized the 
summons and neighed their hunger. The royal stables seethed like an ant 
hill. Horseboys swarmed out of the corridors and into the courtyard. From 
the hoods of their cloaks, from waistbands and vests, they took dates and 
raisins and almonds and popped them noisily into their mouths. They 
stripped the grapes from their vines. They ate with boisterous abandon. 
Some plunged their faces into the troughs and sucked the water as if they 
were horses. 



Agba did not join the other horseboys. He returned to the mare. Moving 
slowly so as not to frighten her, he reached under the saddle hung on the 
wall and found the water vessel he had filled and hidden there an hour ago. 
He poured the water into a basin and waited for the mere to awaken. 



As if she had heard in her dreams the sound made by the water, she woke 
with a jerk and struggled to her feet. She came to Agba and drank. Then she 
raised her head, letting the water slobber from her lips. 



Agba waited motionless, knowing she would want more and more. Her 
deep brown eyes studied him as if to say, "You are the source of all that is 
good." 



A great happiness welled up inside Agba. He nodded, seeming to 
understand her thoughts, then waited while she drank again and again. 



When Agba came out of the mare's stall, the other boys were beginning to 
lead their horses to the common trough to drink. He must hurry now if he 
hoped to get his corn ration first. He picked up a bag made of hemp and ran 
through a maze of corridors and down a steep staircase to the underground 
granary. At the entrance stood Signor Achmet, Chief of the Grooms. Signor 
Achmet was dark and bearded. In his right hand he carried a knotted stick, 
and from the sash at his waist hung a hundred keys. When he saw Agba, he 
gripped the boy’s shoulder with fingers as strong as the claws of an eagle. 




"Why do you not eat with the other slaveboys?" he asked in his cracked 
voice. Then with a sharp look he released Agba and began peeling an orange 
with his fingernails. His beady eyes did not leave Agba's face as he ate the 
orange, making loud sucking noises to show how juicy and good it was. 



Agba gulped. He studied his brown toes. 



"Is it the mare?" 



The boy's eyes flew to the Signor's. 



"Is tonight her hour?" 



Slowly, gravely, Agba nodded. 



"Tonight, then,' the Signor said, as he wiped his mouth on his mantle and 
began fumbling for the key to the granary, "tonight you will not go to your 
quarters to sleep. You will move the mare into the brood-mare stable You 
will remain on watch and call me when she is ready to foal. The all-seeing 
eye of Allah will be upon you." 



Agba's heart fluttered like bird wings. The Chief of the Grooms was letting 
him stay with his mare! He forgot all the cuffs and sharp words. He bowed 
low, impatient to hear the sound of the key turning the great lock, impatient 
for the creaking of the door and the mingled odors of corn and barley. 



The key scraped. The door creaked open. The warm, mellow smells leaked 
out. Signor Achmet stood aside. Agba slipped past him into the darkness. 
Quickly his sensitive fingers sought the good, sound ears of corn. He filled 
his bag with them. Then he turned and fled up the stairs. 




THE BROOD-MARE STABLE 



BUT THE MARE WOULD NOT EAT the corn Agba brought. She only 
lipped it, then closed her eyes with a great weariness. 



Agba was troubled as he watered and fed the other horses in his aisle, as he 
ate his own meal of barley and goat's milk, as he hurried to the broodmare 
stable. 



Signor Achmet must have been there before him. One of the stalls was 
wide open, and a lanthorn hung on a peg, sending out a feeble light. The stall 
had not been used since spring, and had a fusty smell. Agba leaped upon the 
manger and threw open a tiny round window. It showed a patch of sky and 
the new moon. 



"This is a favorable sign," he thought. "A new moon. A new month. The 
foal will be strong and swift." He took a deep breath of the cool summer 
night. Then quickly he went to work, filling bucket after bucket of sand from 
the huge sand pile behind the stables. Back and forth he ran, dumping the 
sand on the door of the stall. Next he covered it with straw, spreading it out 
first with his hands, then trotting over it, galloping over it, around and 
around. At last he surveyed his work with approval. It would be a good bed 
for the mare ! 



Just as he was filling the manger with fodder, Signor Achmet, in flowing 
white robes, looked in. He tested the depth of the sand with a bony 
forefinger. He felt the straw. "You waste the sand and the straw," he said 
with a black look. "Half would do." But the Signor understood Agba's 
concern for the mare. "Fetch her now," he commanded. 



Agba's bow was lost in the darkness. "You will summon me when she 
grows restless." 



Swiftly and silently the Signor turned upon his heel, his white mantle 
fluttering behind him like moth wings. 



The new moon hung over Agba's shoulder as he ran to get the mare. She 
was standing patiently in a corner of her stall, her head lowered, her tail 
tucked in. Placing a hand on her neck, Agba led her out into the night, past 
endless stalls and under endless archways to her new quarters. She walked 
slowly, heavily. 



At the door of the new stall a tremor of fear shook her. She made a feeble 
attempt to go back, but Agba held her firmly, humming to hide his own 
nameless fears. 



She entered the stall. She tried the soft bed with her feet. She went to the 
manger. Her nostrils widened to snuff the dried grasses, but she did not eat 
She put her lips to the water cask, but did not drink. At last she tucked her 
hooves underneath her and with a groan lay down. Her head nodded. She 
steadied it in the straw. Then her breathing, too, steadied. 



As Agba stood on watch, his mind was a mill wheel, turning, turning, 
turning. He trembled, remembering the time he and the mare had come upon 
a gazelle, and he had ridden the mare along- side the gazelle, and she had 
outrun the wild thing. Agba could still feel the wind singing in his ears. 



By closing his eyes, he brought back the whole day. On the way home they 
had passed a wizened old storyteller in the streets, who, when Agba came 
near, motioned him close. The old man placed his hand on the mare's head. 
Then, in a voice that was no more than a whisper, he had said, "When Allah 
created the horse, he said to the wind, 'I will that a creature proceed from 
thee. Condense thyself.' And the wind condensed itself, and the result was 
the horse." 



The words danced in Agba's head as he watched the sleeping mare. I will 
that a creature proceed from thee. Condense thyself! I will that a creature 
proceed from thee. Condense thyself! He told the words over and over in his 
mind, until suddenly the stable walls faded away and Agba was riding the 
South Wind. And there was nothing to stop him. No palace walls. No trees. 




Nor hedges. Nor rivers. Only white clouds to ride through, and a blue 
vaulted archway, and the wind for a mount. 



With a sigh he sank down in the straw. His head dropped. 



A FOAL IS BORN 

THE BOY'S DREAMS SPUN THEMSELVES OUT until there was 
nothing left of them. He slept a deep sleep. The candle in the lanthorn 
sputtered and died. The new moon rode higher and higher. Bats and 
nighthawks, flying noiselessly in the velvet night, went about their business, 
swooping insects out of the air. With the gray light of morning they 
vanished, giving way to the jangling chorus of the crows. 



Agba woke. The stable walls had closed in again. And there was the mare 
lying on her side as be- fore. But her head was raised now, and she was 
drying off a newborn foal ! Her tongue shakes filled the silence of the stall, 
licking, licking, licking. 



The boy watched in fear that if he took his eyes away the whole scene 
might vanish into the mist of the morning. Oh, how tiny the foal was! And 
so wet there was no telling what its color would be. But its eyes were open. 
And they were full of curiosity. 



Agba’s body quivered with the wonder of the little fellow's birth. He had 
seen newborn foals before, but none so small and finely made. In the 
distance he could hear the softly padding feet of the horseboys. He could 
hear the wild boar grunting and coughing in his hole behind the stables. He 
wondered if the boar really did keep evil spirits from entering into the 
horses. 



Afraid to move, he watched the mare clumsily get to her feet. He watched 
her nudge the young thing with her nose. 



The foal tried to get up. He thrust out his forefeet, but they splayed and he 
seemed to get all tangled up with himself. He tried again and again. For one 
breathless instant he was on his feet. Then his legs buckled and he fell in a 
little heap. Agba reached a hand toward him, but the mare came between. 
She pushed the little one with her nose. She pushed him with her tongue. 

She nickered to him. He was trying again. He was standing up. How spindly 
he was! And his ribs showed. And he had hollows above his eyes, just like 
his dam. 



"I could carry him in my arms," thought Agba. "He is not much bigger 
than a goat, and he has long whiskers like a goat. Long and silky. And his 
tail is curly. And he is all of one color. Except— except..." Suddenly the 
boys heart missed a beat. On the off hind heel there was a white spot. It was 
no bigger than an almond, but it was there! The white spot — the emblem of 
swifness! 



Agba leaped to his feet. He wanted to climb the tower of the mosque. He 
wanted to blow on the trumpet. He wanted to cry to the four winds of 
heaven: "A foal is born! And he will be swift as the wind of the desert, for 
on his hind heel is a white spot. A white spot. A white... 



Just then a shaft of early sunlight pierced the window of the stable and 
found the colt. It flamed his coat into red-gold. It made a sun halo around his 
head. 



Agba was full of fear. He opened his mouth, but no sound escaped. Maybe 
this was all a dream. Maybe the foal was not real. The golden coat. The 
crown of sun rays. Maybe he was a golden horse belonging to the chariot of 
the sun ! 



"I'll capture him with a name," the boy thought quickly. And he named the 
young thing Sham, which is the Arabic word for sun. 




No sooner had Agba fastened a name on him than the little creature 
seemed to take on a new strength. He took a few steps. He found his mothers 
milk. He began to nurse, making soft sucking noises. 



Agba knew he should be reporting to Signor Achmet. He knew he should 
be standing in line for his measure of corn. But he could not bear to break 
the spell. He listened to the colt suckling, to the mare munching the dried 
grasses. He smelled their warm bodies. A stable was a good place to be born. 



THE WHEAT EAR 

AGBA'S THOUGHTS WERE BROUGHT UP SHARPLY. The door to 
the stall war opening silently, and Signor Achmet was standing over him, the 
sun glinting along his saber. An angry light leaped into his eyes as he looked 
down at the boy. 



Agba sprang to his feet, waiting for the tongue- lashing, waiting for the 
bony fingers on his shoulder. 



But the eyes of the Signor were no longer on him. The groom was 
examining the foal’s chest, his face frozen in horror. He was shoving the 
mare aside to look closer At last he uttered three words, and each fell with a 
ping, like hail on a rooftop. "The wheat ear!" 



Agba came as close as he dared. He bent low so that he too could see the 
foal’s chest. And there, just as the chief groom had said, was a cross-graining 
of hairs closely resembling a ripened beard of wheat. 



The wheat ear!" Signor Achmet’s voice broke. "It foretells evil. The 
droning of the bittern last night warned me. The yellow-eyed owl warned 
me. Ill luck will attend the colt's days. Ill luck will hang low over the royal 
stables." 



His eyes fixed on the feat's chest, he got slowly to his feet, drawing the 
saber at his belt. 



Agba smothered a cry. Unmindful of his own safety, he thrust himself 
between Signor Achmet and the foal. He fell to his knees, lifting the tiny 
foal, whose legs beat a tattoo in the air. With a look of triumph he pointed to 
the white spot on the off hind heel. 



Signor Achmet's eyes narrowed. His brews came together in a black line. 
Agba could see him weighing the two in his mind — the white spat against 
the wheat ear. The good sign against the bad The scales tipped even. 



Just at that moment the wild boar let out a squeal of anger. It reminded 
Signor Achmet that the boar's sole purpose in the royal stables was to turn 
away evil spirits from the horses and receive them into his own body. 
Grudgingly the groom sheathed his saber. 



"May the evil spirit enter the wild boar," he muttered. 



A deep sigh escaped Agba. 



"But the mare's milk will give the colt no strength," the Signor added 
quickly. "She will die. It is the will of Allah." 



The groom's prediction came true. In spite of Agba's care, the bay mare 
lived only a few days after the birth of her colt. When the Signor heard about 
it, he came thudding in his yellow slippers to the mare's stall. He made 
another prophecy. 



"The foal will die too," he said as he lifted Sham's eyelids. Then he 
shrugged his bony shoulders. "There is nothing to be done. Go to your 
quarters. Begone! 




Agba ran out of the stall. He took no more notice of the boys in the 
corridors than if they had been flies. He did not know where he was going. 
He only knew that he wanted to run until he could run no more — away from 
death and life. 



He ran now, down through the wilderness of corridors to the courtyard 
gate. Two soldiers were patrolling the gate. They waved Agba through 
without question. Was he not the first slaveboy of Signor Achmet? Was he 
not often sent to the shops on errands for the chief groom? 



"Run, run! the soldiers cried to him. 



Out the gates, down the hill to the city of Meknes he ran, past com mills, 
past camels browsing before the tents of Arabs, past mules laden with crates 
of screaming chickens, past shepherds leading their flocks to market-down 
into the dark, crooked streets of the city. He ran faster and faster, dodging 
barking dogs and pigs and goats. He flew post the Shops— the scriveners, the 
meat fryers, the shoemakers, the wax handlers. Shopkeepers tried to stop 
him, to lay hold of his sash, but he was quicksilver in their hands. 



"Some evil spirit must be after him," they laughed to each other, white 
teeth flashing. 



On and on he went, weaving his way between street jugglers, snake 
charmers, water carriers, and small boys scurrying about with great trays of 
bread. He was trying to run away from trouble, but it hugged him like his 
own shadow. "Maybe if I run faster," he thought. He doubled his fists close 
to his body. He plunged on. He could feel his lungs pumping for air. His 
breath came so fast it hurt him. And suddenly he was almost knocked flat by 
the saddle trappings of a camel. 



He stopped and stared. The camel was followed by her calf. A thought 
startled Agba. Camel's milk! Horses of the desert were often raised on it. He 
had heard Signor Achmet say it was better than mare's milk. Stronger. 
Richer. 




He ran to the driver, pulling the hem of his mantle to attract his attention. 
The driver turned around angrily. At once he recognized Agba. The boy had 
often been sent to him to buy camel skins for making stirrup leathers. 



The driver's scowl turned into a greedy smile. Here was an emissary from 
the royal stables, from Signor Achmet himself! If he favored the boy, there 
was no telling what riches might come to him. Perhaps the Signor wanted to 
buy a camel for the Sultan to ride. Perhaps he would be made second in 
command to the Signor and have a hundred slave- boys to come at the mere 
clapping of his hands. 



His smile became a frightened squawk when Agba crumpled in a little 
heap at his feet. 



With a swish of his robes, the driver dismounted, unwound his turban, and 
began fanning the boy. A crowd of men and boys gathered. They were full 
Of words. 



"The fast of Ramadan has weakened him." 



"We saw him running beyond his strength." 



"He is the first slaveboy of the Sultan's groom. But only the camel driver 
worked over the boy, rubbing his hands, fanning him furiously. He held a 
leather water vessel to the boy's lips. Agba's eyelids flickered. He tried to 
drink. The water tasted warm and leathery. He hid his head in his arm. 



The Arab was beside himself with worry. He must please this small 
emissary from the royal stables. He took one of the many identical goatskin 
bags from the camel's load, untied a drinking vessel, and poured out some of 
the precious camel's milk he was taking to market to sell. Then he added a 
few drops of wild honey and gave the cup to the boy. 




Agba took a sip. He held the milk in his mouth. It was thick and rich. It 
was both bitter and sweet at the same time, but it was good! He raised his 
eyes to the Arab's and smiled. 



The Arab was transported with joy. He turned to the crowd about him, 
waving his arms wildly, showing his toothless gums in a broad grin. He 
made Agba drink the full cup. Then he gave him a whole goatskin sack of 
milk to take along and a little jug of the wild honey besides. There would be 
time enough later to find out what the boy wanted. 



"Go back now," he urged,' before the sun climbs higher. Sleep. Your 
message can wait." 



As Agba walked away, hugging his precious gifts, the driver smiled, 
rubbing his hands together. 



CAMEL S MILK AND HONEY 

WHEN AGBA REACHED SHAM'S STALL, he was afraid to open the 
door and look inside. Afraid that the colt would be gone too, and the stall 
would have that lonely, empty look that stalls take on when their occupants 
are dead. 



He slipped inside and closed the door behind him. Now he looked. The 
colt was there ! He was lying on his side, breathing so lightly that for a 
moment the boy was not sure. Then he took a step closer and smiled at his 
fears. The colt was alive, but oh, how thin and weak he was! His sides were 
almost as fiat as Signor Achmet’s prayer rug. 



Agba took the goatskin sack from inside his vest, where he had held it 
close against his body to keep the milk warm. He filled a cup with it, adding 
some of the wild honey. 



A whimper came from the tiny form on the straw. 



Agba knelt down beside him. He stirred the milk with his fingers, then slid 
them into the colt's mouth. 



The colt began working his mouth curiously. He bit the boy's fingers with 
his baby teeth. Then he sucked at them. Softly at first, then fiercely, with all 
the strength he had. 



Agba dipped his fingers again and again. He had never known such 
happiness before. He made little purling noises in his throat. He made all 
sorts of promises in his mind. "My name is Agba. Ba means father. I will be 
a father to you, Sham, and when you are grown, the multitudes will bow 
before you. And you will be King of the Wind. I promise it." 



The boy stirred the milk absently, lost in the future. It took the hungry 
bleating of the colt to bring him back. Sham was not concerned with having 
Agba for a father. What he wanted now was a mother. He nudged the 
horseboy with his pink muzzle. "More milk!" he whined. 

The corners of Agba's mouth twisted into a smile. He went on with his 
feeding until Sham fell asleep. 

Notwithstanding his dark prophecy, Signor Achmet seemed not in the least 
surprised when, day by day, Sham grew steadier on his finely drawn leg. 

"He will live," he said, in the same dry, cracked tone he had used when the 
mare died. "It is the will of Allah. " Then he took to watching Agba through 
narrowed eyes, to see that he did not neglect the other horses. 

Sham thrived on camel's milk and wild honey. And Agba thrived on 
Sham's worship to the point that there was a kind of a hunger within him 
when the colt was out of his site. And when the other boys so much as 
touched Sham's coat, his face clouded. 

He moved Sham out of the broodmare stable and into the stall of his dam. 
He brought his own hammock down from horseboy's quarters and strung it 
in Sham's stall. 

He made his prayers in Sham's stall, carefully spreading his mantle to 
kneel on, and facing the eastern sky that showed itself through the round 
window at the back of the stall. After touching his head to the mantle, he 




formed the words with his lips, "Allahuakibar! God most great!" Then he 
rose, stretched his arms upwards his palms to the heavens and made his own 
private prayer for Sham's welfare. 

When the winds blew sharp and the rains came he made a kind of flock 
bed mattress from wool fibers that he begged from a weaver. Part of it he 
slept on, and part he used to cover Sham and himself. Lying so, each took 
warmth and comfort from the other. 

As Sham grew, he was turned out on grass with the spring colds. But by 
some quirk of nature they refused to accept him. Either they chewed at his 
brush of a tail and kicked up their heels at him, or they would have nothing 
at all to do with him. It was as if they thought that he was too little to bother 
about. 

Sham however seemed not to mind. He turned tail and larked across the 
paddock all by himself. He was busy learning about the world. He found that 
if he swiveled his ears he could bring in sounds from behind— hoof beats 
catching up to him; the panther like tread of Signor Achmet; the quick, 
pattering footfalls of Agba; the melody made by his own hoofs. 



The world was full of wonders! If he stretched his nostrils to the wind, he 
could sift the most interesting smells — the delicious fragrance of clover; the 
biting smell of smoke ham the burning stubble of cornfields; the perfume 
from orange and lime groves; the spicy aroma of pine woods beyond the city 
wall; the musky smell of the wild boar; the cool, moisture-laden scent of the 
clouds that blew over the snow-topped mountains. He could not Label the 
smells as yet but he was sorting them out in his mind. 



Most important of all, he was toughening his muscles and sinews. He 
taught himself to wheel and plunge, and to run until he felt a soaring motion. 



To Agba the world was full of wonders, too. One day when a flock of 
storks was migrating to Sudan, Agba watched in awe as he saw Sham 
skimming the earth trying to match their Eight. Such a wonderment and 
pride filled him that it was almost as if he had foaled the little colt himself. 
He had never known such joy as these days brought! Here was a fellow 
creature that needed him. Not for food and water alone, but for comfort. 
When Sham was afraid, he came running to Agba for protection. When he 




was cold, he sidled up to Agba for warmth. When he was lonely, he nuzzled 
Agba and laid his satin nose against the boy's cheek. 



What did it matter if the other colts thought Sham was different? He was ! 
They ran to their mothers when they were hungry or in trouble. But Sham's 
mother was a slim brown horseboy. 



THE SULTAN S COMMAND 



A YEAR PASSED. And another. And Sham fulfilled the promise of the 
white spot He grew strong, and his fleetness surpassed that of his dam. 
Whenever the horseboys raced their horses beyond the city gates, Sham out 
ran them all. He outran the colts his own age and the seasoned running 
horses as well. He seemed not to know that he was an earthy creature with 
four legs, like other horses. He acted as if he were an airy thing, traveling on 
the wings of the wind. There came a time when none of the boys would 
challenge Agba's hone any more, for constant defeat took the heart out of 
their mounts. 



One spring morning when Agba was watering the other horses in his 
charge, Signor Achmet tapped him on the shoulder. The Signor's face was 
drawn, and beads of perspiration dotted his upper lip. 



"Agba," he said in a voice drained of all swagger, "Sultan Mulai Ismael 
commands me to appear before him this day, at the hour when the sun is in 
the center of the world. He commands six horseboys to accompany me." 



The Signor's words quickened. "You, Agba, will be one of the sin. When 
you have watered the horses, you will have your head shaved. The barber 
already awaits you. Then do you cleanse your body thrice over, from head to 
toe. Make ready." 



Agba's eyes widened in terror. Sultan Mulai Ismael had reigned for over 
fifty years, and it was common knowledge that during his reign no horse- 
boy summoned to the royal presence had ever re- turned. The Sultan was a 



fierce and bloodthirsty ruler. He thought nothing of ordering a thousand 
heads cut off to test the edge of a new saber. He thought nothing of 
commanding his soldiers to wipe out a whole village to test the power of his 
muskets. 



Although the morning was warm, a chill of fear shook Agba from head to 
foot. If he did not return, who would there be to take care of Sham? Yet 
there was nothing to do but obey. He led the horses back to their stalls and 
went to the barber's courtyard behind the stables. The barber was already at 
work. Four of the boys were shaved clean, except for a small tuft of hair left 
growing from the very top of their heads. Agba’s eyes noted the bloody 
scratches on the shaven places. Once he had watched a shepherd shear some 
mountain goats. He seemed far gentler than the barber. 



Suddenly it was Agba’s turn. The barber was sharpening his razor on a 
stone. Now he was skimming it over Agba’s head. It felt as if each hair were 
being pulled up by its root. The only comforting thought was the barber's 
quickness. The ordeal would soon be over. Agba saw the other boys go to 
the well to draw water for their baths, and soon he was joining them. 



Razor still in hand, the barber watched to see that the boys washed each 
finger and toe separately, and to make certain that they poured three vessels 
of water over themselves, each time washing their fingers and toes singly. 



The sun was almost overhead when at last they stood ready, alike as six 
blades of grass. Red felt caps on each head. Long, coarse mantles with 
hoods. Bare, browned feet. And clutched in each bosom a chameleon for 
good luck. 



In single file they joined Signor Achmet and marched down the long 
corridor between the stalls. 



Plop, Plop. Plop, plop. The soles of their feet made dull, thudding sounds 
on the earth. To Agba they echoed the noise of his heart. Plop, plop. Plop, 




plop. Brown legs moved forward, alongside a high outer wall, then up and 
up a steep ramp to the entrance of the Sultans sacred precincts. 



Two rows of royal guards flanked the entrance. They stood so still they 
might have been a banding of sculptured figures. But Agba could feel their 
eyes upon him, stinging his flesh like sand particles driven by the wind. As 
the frightened company halted, six guards came to life. They opened wide 
the gate, made a sweeping bow to Signor Achmet, and waved him and his 
retinue inside. 



It was a gallery they had entered, with gleaming white columns and arches 
fitted with glazed tiles bluer than the sides. Plop, plop. Plop, plop. The bare 
feet of the horseboys marched on, down the endless passageway where birds 
flew wildly as if seeking escape. On and on they went, through a second 
gate, through an inner court, through yet another gate. Agba shuddered as 
each gate closed behind him. It was like the sharp, crackling sound that 
comes with lighting. But no rumble of thunder followed. Only a stillness. It 
weighed on Agba's head, on his shoulders. It made breathing difficult. 



Now, at a gate that was grander than the others, a fierce-looking guard 
barred their progress. He pointed in disdain at Signor Achmet's head and his 
feet. Quickly the Signor threw back his hood and removed his slippers. The 
slaveboys had no slippers to take off, but they too dropped their hoods. 



So, silently, the frightened company filed down the last gallery and came 
out upon the garden of Sultan Mulai Ismael, Emperor of all Morocco. 



SIX STEEDS FOR A KING 

WILD AND DISCORDANT MUSIC met their ears. Bagpipes, lutes, and 
tom-toms fought for supremacy. Agba did not heed them. Nor did be notice 
when the music stopped altogether, and gave way to the tinkling notes made 
by fountains of water playing in marble basins. 



All his senses were trained on a wide dais at the end of the garden. There, 
sitting cross-legged on an embroidered red carpet, was Sultan Mulai Ismael 
himself. 



The Sultan held the boy transfixed. He wore a towering white turban and a 
dazzling white robe with a golden sash. But what struck Agba was that in 
spite of the fine mantle and a beard whiter than driven snow, the old man 
reminded him of a camel. His eyes were hidden by heavy folds of eyelids, 
like a camel's, and his lips were thick and slit in two, and there was a big 
hump on his back. Even his feet were like those of a camel spongy and 
broad and shapeless. 



"Perhaps I am not going to be beheaded after all!" Agba thought. "The 
Sultan does not look like a man to be feared. He is nothing but a camel ! " 



Agba would not have been surprised in the least to see him rise up and 
swing along through the garden, stopping to feed on the leaves of the orange 
trees and the jasmine bushes. 



Signor Achmet was kissing the Sultan's shoulder now, and bowing to the 
ground. Meanwhile a master of ceremonies placed each horseboy on one of 
the square tiles, like men on a chessboard. He arranged them behind the 
Signor, yet so placed that the Sultan could look full into the face of each 
boy. 



Agba’s eyes swept the throne. Squatting on small mattresses to the right of 
the Sultan sat the royal fly-flicker, the sword carrier, the slipper man, the tea 
maker. To the left were officers, messengers, and watch keepers. 



"Signor Achmet!" The Sultan broke the silence. 



Frightened as he was, Agba wanted to laugh out, for even the Sultan's 
voice was high and shrill, like a camel that objects to being mounted. 




"Signor Achmet!" he screamed. "I charge you, as head groom in the 
service of the Sultan of Morocco, to select sir of the most perfect steeds in 
the royal stables. They will be a gift to His Majesty Louis XV, the boy King 
of France." 



The Sultan paused to let his words sink in. A fly buzzed close to his nose, 
and the fly flicker deftly waved it away with a silken handkerchief. 



"With six of your best horseboys," he went on, you will accompany these 
steeds on their journey to the court of Versailles. And you will present them 
to the king in person." 



So soft a sigh escaped the horseboys that it was lost in the little wind that 
stroked the trees. 



"Seven days from this day," the Sultan was saying, "you will depart. At the 
exact moment, on the seventh day, when the sun strikes upon the tower of 
the mosque, you will come to the palace gate. It will be the hour of your 
going. 



The Sultan twitched his thick lips. "A galleon already awaits you at 
Tangier. I have had stalls built into its hold, complete with mangers. I have 
ordered a store of com and chopped barley to be kid in on the day of your 
arrival in Tangier. Am I, or am I not, great?" 



Signor Achmet bowed low. The personal attendants, the officers and 
messengers, the six horse- boys, bowed low. 



Mulai Ismael rocked hack on his haunches. He wriggled his great 
shapeless toes. It was plain to see that he was enamored of this idea that had 
come to him. For a long moment be sat thus. Then he leaned forward 
abruptly. "Do you, or do you not, have a question?" 



Sire," asked the Signor, "shall the horses be mares or stallions? 




Agba listened so intently for the Sultan's answer that he wished the 
honeybees and dies would go about their business more quietly. 



"Stallions!" the Sultan commanded, "to sire many sons of the desert." 



"And no two," he added, as he curled his lips into a split smile, "shall be 
the same color. One shall be chestnut, deep-toned. And one shall be yellow 
dun, with tail and mane of silver. And one shall be dark gray, like the gray of 
the wood dove. And one shall be the whiteness of the Bag that dies over the 
mosque at the hour of prayer. And one shall be black as a starless night. And 



The blood pounded in Agba's ears. Did not Mulai Ismael know that a bay 
horse was, of all horses, the most spirited? 



The Sultan closed the thick folds of his eyelids. He leaned back, resting the 
weight of his turban against the blue tiles of the wall behind him. A hush 
came over the garden. 



The fly-flicker leaped to his feet just in time to swerve a fly that was 
headed for the Sultan's uncovered feet. 



"And one," the Sultan spoke at last, his voice high and far away, "and one 
shall be the color favored by the Prophet." 



Agba's heart was hammering now. He thought of the white spot on Sham's 
heel. Only Sham was fit for a king. Only Sham ... 



Now the Sultan sat bolt upright. The folds of his eyes rolled back. "The 
sixth horse shall be a bay, not a dark bay, but a clear bay— whose coat is 
touched with gold. When he flees under the sun, he is the wind." 




This time Agba's sigh was so deep that the sword- carrier and all the 
watch-keepers turned to look at him. 



The Sultan, too, looked sharply, then went on. color," he said, "is but one 
qualification. Only the most perfect horses in the kingdom shall be chosen. 
Signor Achmet, you will measure each horse in the royal stables for 
proportion. You will begin at the withers and count the number of palms to 
the tail. Then do you measure from the withers along the neck up over the 
poll and down the face to the upper lip. If the distance of the fore part is 
greater than the hind part the horse will travel like the wind, climb like the 
cat, and strike afar." 



Agba's mind took wings. He and Sham were already in France. But the 
boy King was not mounting Sham. He was mounting the yellow dun, 
because no one but Agba could mount Sham. And together, Agba on Sham 
and the King on the yellow dun were riding tandem, cantering through the 
green forests. 



Agba's daydreams ended in a start. The Sultan was clapping his spongy 
hands together. They sounded like hoofs in the mud. At once a white- robed 
scribe came hurrying out from behind the wall at the back of the throne. He 
was a shriveled, thin-faced creature, and in his arm he carried an ink hem, a 
quill pen, a sheaf of paper, and a white satin purse. 



The Sultan waved him to a small mattress on his left. Quickly se scribe 
settled himself, dipped his pen in the ink, and with its point poised in mid-air 
waited for the Sultan's words. 



"To the Most Noble, the Most Majestic King, Louis XV,-' the Sultan 
began. "That you may enjoy the years of Methuselah is the wish of my 
heart." 



The scratching sound of the pen sent chills up and down Agba's spine. He 
had never before watched a man write. 




Mulai Ismael mouthed each word slowly, as if it gave off a pleasant taste. 
"The bearer of this letter," he went on, "is chief groom in the service of His 
Majesty, Mulai Ismael, Sultan of Morocco. He is come with six Arabian 
stallions as a gift to Your Majesty. These Sons of the Desert are strong and 
Beet, and of purest Eastern blood. They are descended from mares that once 
belonged to Mohammed. From henceforward they are yours, that you may 
use them to sire a better race of horses among you. They will strengthen and 
improve your breed." 



The Sultan narrowed his eyes at the half circle of horseboys. "Six 
horseboys," he said, letting each word fall sharply, "will accompany the six 
stallions. And each boy will care for the horse in his charge as long as that 
horse shall live. Upon the death of the horse, the boy shall return at once to 
Morocco." 



Agba did not hear the rest of the letter at all. Drums were beating inside 
him: "As long as that horse shall live. As long as that horse shall live." 



The secretary finished the letter and read it aloud. 



"It wants a word," the Sultan said. "Insert my before 'respects.' I charge 
you then to stamp it with the seal of Mulai Ismael." 



With great exactness, the scribe inserted the word "my" in its proper place. 
Then he opened his white satin purse and spilled the contents— a piece of red 
wax, a seal, and a silken cord — on the mattress. A slaveboy appeared from 
nowhere, almost as if he had come out of the purse too. He held a candle for 
the scribe to melt the wax. Agba watched as the man dropped a stain of red 
on the paper and stamped it with the seal. Then he held the seal to his 
forehead, kissed it, robed the letter into a scroll, and tied it with the silken 
cord. 



Old Mulai Ismael beamed with satisfaction. A present of six Arabian 
stallions would make Monsieur le Due, the King's adviser, rub his hands 
with pleasure. Each horse could win big stakes on the racecourse for him. 




The Sultan's little eyes gleamed in anticipation of all the favors he would 
receive in return: the hogsheads of claret, the coffee and tea and brocades, a 
royal carriage no doubt! But most important, Monsieur le Due would close 
his eyes to the Sultan's bloody rule. 



The Sultan felt good. He nodded to the tea maker, and with that nod the 
garden burst into activity. Slaveboys came running from every direction. 
Some began washing the Sultan's hands, sprinkling his turban, his beard, his 
shoulders, his feet, with perfumed water. Others came bearing a low, round 
eating table covered over with a hood made of palm leaves. 



The tea maker lifted the hood and there, glittering in the spring sunshine, 
was a gold teapot, sending forth a little jet of steam. He dropped a packet of 
tea into the pot and added ginger and cloves and mint and thyme, and as 
many leaves of sugar as he could hold in the cup of his hand. Then he 
stepped over to the sundial and watched the time pass. 



The fragrance of steaming tea and spices filled the garden. The narrow 
slits of the Sultan's nose widened. The horseboys sniffed audibly. 



At a nod from the tea maker, a guard sampled the tea. He took a second 
swallow, then wiped his beard on his mantle. The tea had not been poisoned. 



Mulai Ismael reached for a cup. "Give it me!" he demanded. He drank 
three cupfuls in quick succession, then sipped a fourth with great 
deliberation. At last he ordered that everyone in the garden be served. 



Agba looked at the beautiful amber color of the tea. He took a sip. He 
savored it slowly. It was good. 



Over the gold rim of his cup, the Sultan's eyes wandered over the 
horseboys and stopped at Agba. 




Come near unto me," he commanded. 



Agba's teacup dropped to the tile and shattered. 



"Come near unto me!" repeated the Sultan, his shrill voice climbing to the 
breaking point. 



Slowly, clutching his chameleon to his breast, the boy walked past Signor 
Achmet, past the squatting scribe and the officers and guards, until he stood 
so close to the Sultan that he could smell the oriental perfume with which his 
garments were scented. The cloying sweetness made him feel sick. 



"The King of France is just about the age of this boy: perhaps a trifle 
older," the Sultan remarked. He asked the boy with his eyes. "How old are 
you?" he asked of Agba. 



A heavy silence was the answer. 



"Speak up! How old are you?" he repeated, his voice rasping in anger. 



Again a heavy silence. 



The Sultan's hand fingered the stiletto that hung from his belt. I tightened 
until the leathery knuckles whitened. 



A cold perspiration came out all over Agba's body. He opened his mouth, 
but no sound came. No sound whatever. 



Suddenly a soft rustling noise behind him broke the terrible silence. It was 
made by the garments of Signor Achmet. 



Your Majesty," he began, hesitatingly. "May I speak? 




Speak out quickly," the Sultan said, drawing his stiletto. 



Signor Achmet's voice was hushed. "The horse- boy, Agba, has no power 
of speech." 



"What!" 



"Aye, sire." 



Now even the horseboys gasped. They did not know that Agba was a 
mute. They remembered, now that they thought about it, that Agba talked 
with his fiery black eyes, his thin hands, his shoulders, his eyebrows, and 
with his silences. Signor nodded his head. "The boy is a mute." 



"Can he manage a horse?" 



"Aye, Your Majesty." 



"Then I charge you to take him with you to the court of Versailles. A boy 
who cannot talk can spill no tales." With a gesture of impatience he returned 
his stiletto to its sheath. Then he peered at the position of the sun and nodded 
a curt dismissal to Signor Achmet. 



Agba stood still. He felt he had no strength to move. But the audience was 
ended. Signor Achmet struck him lightly on the shoulder. With the groom 
and the horseboys he bowed low before the Sultan and walked backward out 
of the garden. 



As soon as they reached the outer gate, Agba freed the chameleon in his 
bosom. Then he listened for the footfalls of his little company. No longer did 
they go plop, plop, plop, plop. They were so light and springy they made no 
sound at all. 




The other horseboys broke into excited chatter as they started toward the 
stables. But Agba was thinking only of Sham. 



AGBA MEASURES SHAM 

IT WAS ALMOST SUNDOWN before Agba had a moment to measure 
Sham. With fast-beating heart he ran his hand along the horse's back until he 
came to the tail. Then he stopped. One! he counted in his mind. He placed 
his left hand ahead alongside his right. Two! He crossed his right hand over 
his left. Three! He brought his left hand around to his right. Four! Each time 
he spread out his fingers to make his hand as broad as Signor Achmet's. 



The count at the withers was fifteen. He leaned his head against Sham's 
neck, afraid to go on. 



What if the count from withers to muzzle would be less than fifteen hands, 
or only equal to fifteen? A thousand horrible thoughts flew into his mind. 



Sham left behind, Sham mistreated by another horseboy, a whip lashed 
across his body, spurs kicked into his ribs, the sand in his stall unchanged. 



Sham nudged Agba’s shoulder, scratching his nose on the boy’s coarse 
mantle. Agba straightened. He could put off the moment no longer. Signor 
Achmet would soon be here. "I will get to your corridor at sundown," he had 
told Agba. "In all the royal stables there are but four bay stallions touched 
with gold. Already I have measured three. One qualifies. His hind part 
measures fifteen hands, his fore part eighteen." 



Agba resumed his measuring. Fingers trembling, he placed his right hand 
on Sham's withers. One! Left hand came alongside. Two! Right over left. 
Three! Left alongside right. Four! 



Right, left. Five, six. 



Twelve at the crest. 



Fifteen at the ears. 



Now over the poll and down the face. Right, left. Sixteen. Seventeen. 



Right, left. Eighteen. Nineteen. 



Nineteen at the upper lip ! 



At that moment Agba felt the knotted stick on his shoulder. He wheeled 
around and faced the Signor. 



The Signor's head was nodding up and down. "Aye," he was saying. "This 
one is chosen. He measures one hand more than the best. His neck is made 
long to stretch out in running. 



The Signor turned and was gone. Agba quickly closed the door of the stall 
behind him. Wild with excitement, he kissed the white spot on Sham's heel. 
He sprang up on Sham's back and with his hands for a neck rein, he rode 
him around and around the stall until they both were dizzy. 



The seven days before their departure hew. Agba made a nosebag out of 
his turban to accustom Sham to the way he would have to eat on the 
overland journey to Tangier. He exercised him, increasing the distance each 
day. He took him to the farrier's and watched, troubled, as the big-muscled 
man took a knife and a hammer and fitted Sham's hooves to the shoes. Both 
he and Sham were covered with sweat when the shoeing was finally done. 




On the last night in the Sultan's stables, Agba hardly slept at all. He kept 
jumping down from his hammock and feeling inside the two great pockets 
which fitted over the cantle of his saddle. He wanted to make sure that 
nothing was missing: the leathern vessel for water, the fine new nose- bag 
the Signor had given him; the rub-rag made of camel's hair; the little earthen 
jug of rancid butter, called budra, with which to rub Sham's legs; the fly crop 
made from the hairs of Sham's tail. 



The stars were beginning to fade when at last he slept. 



SALEM ALICK! 



BY THE TIME DAWN CREPT DOWN the Atlas Mountains and filled 
the Mekens Valley with long shafts of light, Signor Achmet and six horse- 
boys, on their Arabian stallions, were on their way to the royal palace. 



Agba, first of the six, rode with his eyes fixed on the sun. It was climbing 
higher and higher, veering southward, nearer and nearer to the tower of the 
mosque. Now its outer rim was almost touching the slender needle. 



The Signor, too, was watching the sun. If he did not arrive at the exact 
moment the Sultan had specified, there was no telling what the punishment 
might be. He quickened his pace. Agba and the other boys did not need to 
urge their horses. They were eager to go, tossing their heads with 
impatience. Just as the sun slid behind the tower, the procession moved up 
the steep incline that led to the entrance of the palace grounds. 



And at that precise moment four bagpipers and four tom-tom players tore 
the morning stillness to shreds. The palace gates were flung open, and Sultan 
Mulai Ismael himself came riding toward them. He swayed on his horse like 
a ship at sea, and in his wake trailed an enormous following— the parasol 
holder, the fly-flickers, the groom, the spurmen, and slaves and foot soldiers 
without number. 



There was a flurry of movement along the walls. A thousand guards stood 
at attention. A thousand spears, like so many serpents' tongues, were thrust 
into the air. A thousand throats shouted above the drums and the bagpipes, 
"May Allah bless the life of our Sultan!" 



Signor Achmet and the horseboys bowed until their noses brushed the 
manes of their mounts. Without answering the salutation, the royal 
procession swept past them, down the incline between rows of guards, and 
led the way to the city gates. 



In single file the Signor and the horseboys followed. Through the narrow 
public streets they rode. Buyers and sellers and saints and beggars joined the 
parade. 



Women, their faces half-hidden by veils, came out on the rooftops to 
watch and to add their high- voiced cries to the beating of the tom-toms and 
the skirting of the bagpipes. 



Discordant as the music was, there was a kind of rhythm and excitement to 
it, too. The horses kept time to it. The silken handkerchiefs of the fly- 
flickers, and even the royal parasol, waved to its rhythm. 



As the parade left the market place, Agba felt someone pull at his mantle. 
He looked out of the comer of his eye and caught the toothless grin of the 
camel driver. 



Agba smiled in quick recognition. 



The camel driver bellowed a huzza. Then he extended his arms to heaven, 
as if this moment of sharing Agba's glory was reward enough for all the 
camel's milk he had given him. 




At last the procession reached the outer gate of the city. The music 
stopped. A great silence fell over the multitude as the Sultan, helped by his 
attendants, dismounted. With a jolting, camel-like trot he made his way to 
the six Arabians and tied a silken bag around the neck of each one. There 
was a dark red bag for the chestnut, a pale yellow one for the yellow dun, a 
gray bag for the dappled gray, a white bag for the white, a black one for the 
black, and for Sham there was a bag made of shiny gold cloth. 



The Sultan's shrill voice pierced the quiet. 



"These bags," he said, "contain the pedigree of each stallion. They also 
contain amulets of great power, amulets that will prevent and cure the bite of 
scorpions and protect your stallions from evil spirits. Guard these bags well. 
The King of France and Monsieur le Due will thus bear witness to my 
greatness." He patted his chest and grinned until his eyes were hidden in 
their folds of fat. 



"Ride under the sun," his voice intoned. "Ride under the rain water, 
blessed of Allah. Ride the golden hills of the Atlas Mountains. Ride through 
the green valleys and the regions of the plains. Ferry across the winding 
rivers. And when you have crossed the provinces of Errif and El Garb, then 
do you embark at Tangier and sail the blue waters of the Mediterranean. 
Travel in safety, so that the King and Monsieur le Due will thus bear witness 
to my greatness. 



He turned to Signor Achmet. His voice changed. "Give your hones the 
heel!" he shrieked. "Salem alick! Farewell!" 



"Alick salem! cried the Signor. Then, clapping his spurs to his hone, he 
wheeled and rode out of the gate, followed by the six purest-bred stallions in 
the kingdom of Morocco. 



In the twinkling of an eye, horses and riders were gone, speeding toward 
the ship prepared for them. 




The Sultan returned to his palace with a smile of satisfaction, thinking how 
neatly his plans were working out. 



He did not know that the captain of the vessel had pocketed the money 
sent to buy com and barley for the horses and had stuffed the sacks with 
straw instead. Nor did he know that the horseboys would be made to man the 
heavy sails on stormy seas. Nor that day after day they would be fed only on 
bread and water, until they were skin and bones when at last they reached 
the coast of France. 



THE BOY KING 



IT WAS FOUR WEEKS LATER to a day when Signor Achmet and his 
little company arrived at the court of Versailles. Monsieur le Due, the King's 
adviser, was in the beauty salon at the time. He was calmly admiring himself 
in a mirror, when suddenly the pixie-like face of the King's groom was 
reflected right alongside his own. 



"My Lord Duke! My Lord Duke!" the groom puffed. "I have news! 
News!" 



"What brings you to the beauty salon?" Monsieur spoke in an icy tone. "Is 
the stable afire?" 



"Oh no, my Lord." 



"What is it then?" he asked, viewing the back of his wig with a long- 
handled mirror. The elfin figure of the groom was agitated with excitement. 
"Why, ’tis a gift to His Majesty, the King," he breathed. "A gift of six horses. 
They stand within the stable this very moment." 



"Ha!" scoffed Monsieur le Due. "A hundred horses are in the royal stables. 
Yet you disturb my toilet with news of a paltry six more. 



But, my Lord! They've come by land and by sea all the way from ... 



"Hold your tongue!" the Duke commanded. He turned to the gentleman- 
of-the-wigs. "You shall add forty more curls," he said, rolling the words on 
his tongue as if he were tasting a French pastry. "You shall do twenty on 
either side, to form the effect of pigeons' wings. What think you of it?" 



The gentleman-of-the-wigs raised the fingers of his right hand as if he 
were holding a teacup. 



"Exactement!" he grimaced. "Forty it shall be! Twenty on either side! It 
will be my masterpiece!" And he whisked the wig from Monsieur's head, 
carefully replacing it with the old wig which, to the eyes of the groom, 
looked almost identical. 



The Duke turned to the groom. "Whence did you say the horses came?" he 
snapped. 



"I did not say, my Lord." 



"Well, speak up!" 



"From Africa, my Lord. From Morocco. And, my Lord, the bearer of the 
gift and his six horse- boys will not leave the stable." 



"What's that? What's that?" 



"They stand like stones. They will not leave. The chief fellow has a letter, 
and he will give it to no one but Monsieur le Due or His Majesty the King. 
The groom tiptoed around the gentleman-of-the- wigs and brought his face 
close to the Duke's. "Me thought you'd like to know," he whispered, 'that I 
have the King's horse in readiness. In a moment he leaves for the chase. But, 




my Lord," the groom's face broke into a sly smile, "me thought [ you would 
like to come to the stable and read the letter first." 



Monsieur le Due patted the groom's shoulder with a jeweled hand. Then, 
upsetting a powder table in his haste, he snatched up his plumed hat and 
hurried to the stables with the groom running bowlegged behind him. 



As Mulai Ismael's letter was being put into the Duke's hands, King Louis 
XV, followed by twenty courtiers, walked into the royal stable. A great 
stillness seemed to come in with them. The only sound in that vast high- 
ceilinged building was made by Sham swishing a fly from his hip. 



The young King stopped stock still. He seemed transfixed by the pitiful 
gathering before him. Slowly, looking from one to the other, he studied the 
six stallions and the lead hone of Signor Achmet. They were carefully 
groomed, but so bony that each rib showed. And beside each stallion stood a 
thin, ragged horseboy, holding his charge on a lead rope. 



The King was about the same age as the horse- boys, but there the likeness 
stopped. He wore high polished boots and golden spurs, and his breeches 
and coat were of velvet. The horseboys were bare- legged, and the insides of 
their legs were covered with blue-green welts made by their stirrup straps on 
the long overland ride. And their bodies were wrapped in coarse, hooded 
cloaks. 



Agba was glad of the hood. It was like the protective shell of a turtle. He 
could see out, yet he felt that no one could see him. Had he only known, the 
darkness of his hood made glowing embers of his eyes. 



Monsieur le Due cleared his throat. He bowed low. "Your Majesty," he 
sniveled, "may find this letter interesting. I know not what it says." 



Louis XV looked past the Duke as if he did not exist. 




"Read it to me," he said absently, without taking his eyes from the horses 
or the boys. 



"It bears the seal of Mulai Ismael," the Duke said as he untied the silken 
cord and broke the red seal. His tongue passed rapidly over the 
complimentary phrases at the beginning. Then he read more slowly. 



'"The bearer of this letter is come with six Arabian stallions as a gift to 
Your Majesty. These sons of the desert are strong and fleet .. .' " 



Here the Duke burst out laughing. "Really, Your Majesty, this is very 
amusing. The Sultan refers to these bags of bones as strong and fleet and of 
purest Eastern blood.' Pardon me, Your Majesty, but it is enough to make me 
die of laughter. 



At the sound of his hollow laughter all the horses laced their ears back. 



The King's face clouded. "Read on," he said. 



"Very well. 'They are descended from mares that once belonged to 
Mohammed." Now the Duke's voice was full of mockery and scorn. "'From 
henceforward,' the letter reads, ’you may use them to sire a better race of 
horses among you. They will strengthen and improve your breed.' " 



The King's groom brought forward his mount. The horse was a big 
gelding, nearly twice the size of the Arabians. From his superior height, he 
looked down on the six stallions and let out a shrill whinny. 



The Duke shrieked with laughter. "See there, Your Majesty! Even your 
own horse is laughing. I trust you will send these old sand sifters back to the 
desert where they belong. The bony broomtails!" 




Agba's fists clenched. He could not understand a word of this foreign 
tongue, but he knew that the man was laughing at Sham and the other bones. 
His burning eyes sought the King's. He longed to tell him that the horses 
were gaunt only because of the terrible journey, and that soon they would be 
sleek and beautiful again. He longed to tell him how swift they were, and 
how brave. 



"Send a messenger to Bishop Fleury," the King said to the groom. "Tell 
him the King awaits him." 



The courtiers who were clustered behind the King drew a sigh. This was 
all very much like a play. Act One was over. Now there would be a little 
wait for Act Two. 



Monsieur le Due made his own use of the intermission. He drew a tiny 
snuff bottle out of his pocket and dipped into it with a miniature silver 
spoon. Then he fed each nostril a rounded spoonful of the snuff. 



Your Majesty," he said, pinching his nose and snuffing noisily. "Mulai 
Ismael insults the horses of France. He insults your own mount. But more 
dastardly, he insults your Royal Majesty." 



Making a wry face, he let his glance wander over the chestnut, the dappled 
gray, the yellow dun, the black horse, the moon-colored horse. When he 
came to Sham, he stopped short. "Monstrosity!" he spat out the word. 
"Nothing but skin and bones, and a crest so high you can hang your hat upon 
it! Fie! Pooh! Bah!" 



His face wrinkled until it looked not much bigger than a prune. Then the 
prune seemed to burst open, and the very stable trembled with the force of 
the Duke's sneeze. 



Sham wheeled in fright. And to Agba's horror his off hind hoof landed 
squarely on Monsieur le Due's toe. 




Quick as a flash, Agba lifted Sham's foot. He could not help noticing, with 
the faintest of smiles, that it was the one with the white spot. 



With a mighty outcry, the Duke grabbed his foot and went hopping about 
the stable like a one-legged bird. 



"Help! Help he!" he cried while the courtiers and the horseboys tittered. 
Agba thought he saw a smile flicker across the King's face, but he could not 
be sure. Bishop Fleury had arrived. 



Agba liked the Bishop at once. He had friendly blue eyes and wore no wig 
at all. His hair was powdered white by time. He bowed to the King face, 
then turned to the Duke, his eyes crinkled with suppressed laughter. "What is 
it Monsieur le Due? What is it?" he asked. 



Monsieur le Due’s face was stained an angry red. 

"This— this clumsy, camel-necked nag!" he stammered. "He crushed my 
toe. What is more, he did it from a vile temper and ... 

"The Sultan's letter," the King interrupted. "I desire you to show it to 



Bishop Fleury. 



"Read it to me, Monsieur le Due," said the Bishop. "My eyes are fading. 



Monsieur le Due spared nothing in the reading. At the end he said, "I beg 
your pardon, Bishop Fleury, but the rains have spoiled the harvest. Com is 
scarce. My advice to the King is to send these nags of small stature back to 
Africa." His eyes fell on Sham. "Save one," he added. "The chief cook is in 
need of a cart horse to drive to market." 




The King looked to the Bishop with questioning eyes. 



"Dear son," the Bishop said as he put a gentle hand on the boy's head. 
"Pray look at your own stableful of horses. Pray look at your favorite mount. 
He is stout of limb, and lusty. These Arabian creatures are small. Moreover, 
corn is dear. Why do you not turn the high-crested creature over to the chief 
of the kitchen? He could draw a cart to market and bring back the food for 
your table. The other horses could be assigned to the army to transport 
supplies. They would thus need far less to eat than if they were employed in 
the chase." 



Agba's and the King's eyes met. It was the King who looked down first. He 
was King in name only. He had no power to change the order of the older 
men. He nodded his head listlessly. "Let it be as you say." And without 
another glance at the stallions he mounted his great horse and rode away. 



THE THIEVES’ KITCHEN 

ONLY AGBA AND SHAM REMAINED in the King's stables. Signor 
Achmet dared not go back to Morocco and face the wrath of the Sultan. He 
swallowed his pride and went along with the other horseboys, accepting a 
humble position as groom in the French army. Before he left, however, he 
took the bag from Sham's neck and tied it around Agba's. "The pedigree and 
the amulets will be safer with you, Agba," he said, with a meaningful look at 
the King's groom. 



In the days that followed, Sham regained his vigor. And with it seemed to 
come an intense distrust of everyone except Agba. With Agba in the driver's 
seat, Sham's way of going to market was so bold and handsome that 
journeymen turned round to gape at him. He pranced his way between the 
stalls of the pea shellers and the artichoke boilers as if he were making 
figure eight's in the King's courtyard. As for the harness and the degrading 
vehicle he pulled, one would have thought he wore purple housings and 
drew the King's carriage! 



But if the chief cook so much as touched the reins, Sham took the bit and 
went where he pleased, and no amount of whip lashing could control him. 
The people in the market place stood in open- mouthed wonder at the spirit 
of Sham. Secretly they admired the proud way he took the cook's lashes. 
There was the plump apple woman who polished her apples with her apron. 
She soon made it a habit each market day to save two of her biggest apples - 
- one for the fiery little horse and the other for the quiet boy. Even the 
vendor of sweets held back a pan of frosted pastries on the days when Sham 
was expected. And a farmer who had the turnip stall managed to keep from 
his wife a whole sackful of turnips for Sham. 



One day the chief cook insisted upon driving alone to market. He wanted 
to select a nice suckling pig for the King's birthday dinner. "And," he told 
Agba, "I need every inch of space for the live pig and for sausages and 
potatoes and mushrooms and herrings and eggs and chickens. You will stay 
in the kitchen and scour the pots." 



Now the cook told Agba only half the truth. What he really wanted was to 
be rid of Agba. It irked him that a mere sliver of a boy could manage the 
horse and he could not. If he could just get rid of the boy, he had a feeling he 
could master the horse. 



But he was wrong. Without Agba, Sham was mischief itself. He waited 
until the cart was groaning with vegetables and fish and fowl and the live 
pig. Then suddenly he became forked lightning. In and out among the 
market stalls he streaked. He overturned the cart spewing chickens, herrings, 
eggs, the frightened pig, and an amazed cook high into the air! 



Children screamed. Fishmongers, market women, eating-house keepers 
slipped and stumbled. They shook their fists and shouted at the King's cook. 



As he scrambled to his feet, the cook was so con- fused he did not know 
whether to chase the horse or the suckling pig ! He darted first after one and 
then the other, and ended by catching neither. When the little apple woman 




quietly held out her hand and brought Sham to a halt, it was more than the 
cook could bear. He was beside himself with rage. 



"This settles it!" he cried. "Everyone but me can handle the crazy brute. I'll 
sell him at the Horse Fair." 



To horse traders, the Horse Fair was known by quite a different name. It 
was called the Thieves' Kitchen, because no one knew where the horses 
came from and nobody cared. No questions were asked. 



Red-faced and panting, the cook led Sham to the big open shed of the 
Thieves' Kitchen. Sham was not winded in the least. He seemed actually to 
be enjoying the cook's discomfiture. 



The cook cast a quick glance to the right and to the left. In all the long 
shed there was not another horse trader in sight. He sighed with relief, for 
the fewer people who saw him in his disheveled condition the less talk there 
would be. If word of the lost pig and the runaway horse ever reached the 
royal kitchen, his high position would be ruined. The scullions, as they 
cleaned their pots and kettles, would whisper and laugh behind his back. He 
must sell the horse quickly. He resolved to get rid of him to the very first 
buyer. 



Scarcely had he blotted the splattered eggs from his over blouse when a 
man walked past. He was enormous in build, and he stalked rather than 
wanted, like a big tiger cat. His hat was pulled far down over his head, and 
he looked neither to the one side nor to the other. Yet somehow the cook 
sensed that the man was in the vicinity of Thieves' Kitchen for but one 
purpose. He was in need of a horse. 



Almost past the shed, he wheeled about and came skulking back, shaking 
his head as if suddenly remembering an errand. 



The cook could not see the face of the man, but he noticed the brutish size 
of him — hands big and broad, legs shaped like water casks. He noticed, too, 




that the man carried a horsewhip. A wood carter, he figured. Or a street 
hawker. 



"Ahem!" the cook cleared his throat. "Are you in need of a stout beast, 
sir?" 



The man stopped in his tracks. 



"No!" he snarled, pulling his hat even farther over his eyes. "Your price is 
too high." 



"But sir," wheedled the cook, "I have not spoken to you about the price. 



"I know you thieves," the carter bawled out, waving the rook aside. "You 
steal a horse. Then ask a fortune for it." 



A group of passers-by and idlers began surrounding the two men. 



The cook spoke in a low tone. "Name your price, my good man, and I'll 
throw in the harness too, and a slightly damaged cart with a few vegetables 
in it. He's a good stout beast, he is." 



"Why, that weed!" the carter threw back his head and bellowed. "He's 
neither horse nor pony. Too small for one, too big for the other. Besides, his 
neck's misshaped!" 



"But sir," pleaded the cook, "you’ve not even looked at the creature." 



The carter motioned the growing crowd to close in. He thumped himself 
on the chest with the handle of his whip. "Me and all my friends here," he 
roared, "we saw the whole show. Ho! Ho!" he snorted, "the beast made a 
fool out of you. He freed your pig and scrambled your eggs. Ho! Ho! Ho!" 




Then he brushed the people aside and began fumbling in his pockets, 
taking a little money from each one, ill give you these francs for the nag," he 
said. "Then I'll teach him a thing or two." And he cracked his whip sharply 
as if to prove his words. 



Sham felt the gust of wind made by the whip. He quivered, then went up 
on his hind legs and neighed shrilly. 



The cook laughed. He was not interested in Sham's feelings. He was 
interested only in getting rid of the horse. That the man was brutish 
concerned him not at all. Quickly the deal was closed, and the carter led 
Sham away. 



AGBA BECOMES AN AWAKENER 

WHEN THE CHIEF COOK RETURNED ALONE, his clothes torn and 
his face grim, Agba knew that Sham was in trouble. He was beside himself 
with worry. He dogged the man's footsteps, but he could learn only that 
Sham had been left in Paris. Why or where, the cook stubbornly refused to 
tell. 



Finally he became so annoyed at Agba’s shadow that he booted the boy out 
of the kitchen door. "You, you tagtail!" he bawled out after him. "Stay out of 
my sight. Go find the beast yourself. " 



Agba fled to Paris. He haunted the market place, the Horse Fair, the stables 
of the inns. Night and day he searched the roads that led into the great city. 
He lived on nothing but apples which the apple woman gave him. When he 
did sleep, he curled up in a nest of straw in the very shed where Sham had 
been sold. 



One night the owner of a chocolate shop offered him a job as an awakener. 
Ye seldom seem to sleep anyway," he told Agba. "Ye may as well be paid 



for waiting others. Besides, ye look as if ye needed some steaming chocolate 
to warm your belly and a kind word to warm your heart." 



Agba was glad of the work. The chocolate shop was in the center of the 
market district, and served carters and buyers. One among them might turn 
out to be the owner of Sham. 



Each night now he snatched a few hours of sleep in the shed at the Horse 
Fair. Then, long before sunrise, he would hurry to the chocolate shop, drink 
his pot of chocolate, and go to work. It was his job, as soon as the market 
stalls were ready for business, to awaken the customers who had arrived in 
the middle of the night and had fallen asleep over their cups. 



Some slept so deeply that no amount of shaking would rouse them. They 
had almost to be lifted to their feet. These heavy sleepers paid Agba two 
sous. The light sleepers paid him one sou. A few laughed in his face and did 
not pay him at all. 



One early summer evening when Agba was on his way to the shed, he 
decided to wander along the Boulevard St. Denis and wait for dark to fall. 
He stopped to watch the play of water in a marble fountain. There was 
something about the tinkling sound that reached far back into his memory. 
The street faded away. In its place was the Sultan's garden. Agba could 
smell the orange blossoms and jasmine. He could hear the Sultan's voice: 
"And one shall be a clear bay touched with gold." 



He was hardly aware of the sound of cartwheels and the clomp-clomp of 
unshod hooves. Yet he closed the shutter on his dreams and, from force of 
habit rather than hope, turned to look at the animal. 



Something within him snapped. A small dusty horse, harnessed to an 
empty cart, was coming toward him. The horse turned toward the fountain as 
if to drink, but the driver jerked him sharply away. 




Agba's heart seemed to stop altogether, then suddenly began thumping. He 
waved to the man to stop. 



"Aside! You dog!" roared the carter as he struck Agba's legs with the lash 
of his long whip. Agba jumped aside, his eyes never leaving the horse. He 
tried to make the little purling noise in his throat, but they would not come. 
No matter. This beaten creature could not be Sham. It was only the size that 
brought up his memory. There was no wheat ear on his chest. Or.. .could it be 
hidden by the collar of his harness? There was no white spot on his off hind 
heel. Or ... could it be crusted with mud? 



Agba followed the cart past a big inn, past a theater of marionettes, past 
houses with gabled roofs that stared down at him with their triangular eyes, 
then down squalid old streets and narrow passages. Clop, clop. Clap, clop. 
Clop, clop. Once the horse stumbled, and Agba could hear the loud curses of 
the driver. Then clop, clop. Clop, clop. And just when Agba could bear the 
sound no longer, the horse turned into an extremely narrow alley and 
stopped before a rickety shed. 



Hiding behind a barrel. Agba peered around and saw that half of the shed 
was empty, the other half piled to the rafters with wood. He watched as a cat 
leaped out from the woodpile, streaked to- ward the horse, and landed lightly 
on his back. A weak whinny escaped the horse, but it was lost in the carter's 
scorn. "Grimalkin! You crazy tomcat!" he taunted, "still in love with your 
bony friend?" 



Agba saw the cart drawn into the shed, saw the driver hitch the horse to a 
ring on the wall, toss him a bundle of hay, and walk off into the deepening 
twilight. 



Slowly, slowly, the boy stole into the shed. He walked around the cart until 
at last he was standing face to face with the horse. He was near enough to 
touch the muzzle, near enough to stroke the gaunt neck, but he forced his 
hands to hang at his sides. Now the cat was mewing softly, and to his voice 
the boy added the only sounds he could make, the little purling noises like a 
brook on a summers day. 




The ears of the horse began to twitch. His nostrils quivered. Then without 
a sound he lowered his head and rubbed it against Agba's shoulder. 



Agba did not need to look for the wheat ear or the white spot. It was 
Sham! 



A STRANGE THREESOME 



THE CARTER ALLOWED AGBA to live in his shed, not from kindness 
but because he could use the boy. He had long wanted someone to load his 
cart each morning. Now a slave had come to him as if by magic. And it cost 
him nothing at all- in money or food or clothing. 



Agba gave up his job as awakener. Instead, be helped the fishmongers and 
the farm women at the market place by day, and so came to the alley at night 
with presents of little things that horses and cats like. 



It was a strange threesome: the boy, the cat and the horse. Each evening, at 
the first sound of cart- wheels, Grimalkin would By out of the shed. With a 
quick Leap he was on Sham's back, miaowing and talking to him in his cat’s 
way. 



Agba would wait in silence, wait for the creaking wheels to come to a stop, 
wait for the deep bellowing roar of the carter. Always it was the same. 



"You mute! You numps! A horse and a cat for company! Out of my way!" 



At first the carter let Agba unharness Sham at night and tend his sores, but 
when he saw the fiery look return to Sham's eyes he was not pleased. And 
when, one day, Sham seized him by the breeches and bit him viciously, the 
carter flew into a rage. 



"The brute can sleep harnessed and standing," he told Agba. "A few 
harness sores'll teach him to respect this!" And he snaked his whip in the air 
until it hissed. 



On Sundays, however, the carter never came near the shed, and it seemed 
as if all day long the cat never stopped purring and Sham neighed his 
happiness in a pitiful, thin sound. As for Agba, there was a silent rapture in 
the way he worked. He washed Sham. He dried and smoothed his coat. He 
rubbed the horse's legs with the last of the budra which he had brought from 
Africa. He combed Sham's tangled tail and mane. He made cooling poultices 
of wet leaves, and applied them with his gentle fingers to all of Sham's 
sores. He packed the inner walls of Shards hooves with mud. And he fed 
him three times a day with the oats he had bought with his own money. 



As Agba ran his hand over the wheat ear on Sham's chest or the white spot 
on his heel, the words of Signor Achmet kept beating in his ears: "The white 
spot against the wheat ear. The good sign against the bad. The one and the 
other." 



The days shortened into winter. Despite Agba’s care, Sham's coat was not 
coming in thick and glossy as it had in Morocco. It remained harsh and 
staring. And some nights he was too tired to eat. He would only mouth the 
food that Agba brought, and drop it listlessly. Day by day Agba watched 
the skin of Sham's neck grow more and more flabby, and the hollow places 
above his eyes deepen. 



One fierce, cold morning, in the dead of winter, the carter startled the three 
creatures out of their sleep with a shrill whistle. He stood over them, rubbing 
his hands in pleasure. This was the kind of day he liked. Last night's sleet 
had stopped. The air was sharpening. People would need plenty of wood to 
feed their fires. Business would be brisk. 



He stood with hands on hips, singing a coarse song while Agba loaded the 
cart. Usually he was satisfied when the load reached the top of the great 
cartwheels. But this day he ordered the logs laid higher and higher, and he 




licked Agba when the boy tried to interfere. At last be had to help tie the 
logs with a stout hempen cord to keep them from toppling. 



'He! Ho!" he sang out lustily as he swung his great bullring body atop the 
load, "I feel sorry for beasts on a frosty day like this, so I give 'em a big load 
to make'em sweat. Allons!" he shouted, cracking his whip. 



Agba saw Sham slip on the icy ramp that led out of the shed. He saw the 
carter pull him up by a savage tug on the bit. Then horse and cart were lost 
in the darkness. 



Shopkeepers were opening their shutters, and the tallow dips of the city 
were being snuffed out when the carter reached the Boulevard St. Denis. 



His first stop was at the Hotel de Ville, a big gray building with lions at the 
entrance. To get to the service entrance, Sham had to climb a steady up 
grade from the street. But try as he would, he could get no footing on the icy 
cobble stones. Balls of ice had formed inside his hooves, and after many 
tries he was still pawing and slipping at the very bottom of the incline. 



The carter's temper was growing short. He laid the whip across Sham's 
bony hips. He stood up and lashed it across the horse's ears. He shouted and 
cursed. 



"You tom-noddy! You puny nag! Back up, you beast of a carthorse!" 



Icicles were forming on Sham's feelers, yet his body was wet with sweat. 
He backed up. He lowered his head, and as the whip struck him, he made a 
snatching pull. The load moved, and as if by some supernatural power Sham 
kept on going up the incline. When almost at the top, however, his forefeet 
began slipping. He clawed with them. The whip snarled and cracked. It cut 
deep into his hide. Groaning, he tried again, and again. His veins swelled to 
bursting. 




In spite of the bitter weather, passers-by stopped to watch. A water carrier 
set down his yoke and stepped forward as if to protest. But one look at the 
livid face of the carter stopped him. 



Sham was sucking for breath, his nostrils going in and out, showing the 
red lining. Once more he threw himself against the collar of his harness. He 
struggled to keep his footing. The onlookers were pulling with him, 
breathing heavily, tensing their muscles as one man, straining, straining to 
help. But it was no use. With a low moan, Sham fell to his knees. 



A great crowd had gathered, and a collection of dogs began barking as the 
carter jerked the reins, trying to lift Sham up by sheer force. But he was 
caught fast between the shafts of the cart. His eyes were wild and white- 
ringed with fear, his mouth bleeding. 



Leaping to the paving stones, the carter braced the cart with a log. "Now," 
he yelled to the crowd. "I'll take my own faggots and build a fire under his 
tail. That will make the stubborn beast riser" 



As he was reaching for his faggots, an Englishman of stately bearing made 
his way into the crowd. He wore the collar-less black coat and the broad- 
brimmed black hat of a Quaker. Although his garments and manner were 
sober, there was a fiery look in his eye. 



"My friend," he addressed the carter in perfect French, "I have long 
wanted a quiet old horse." Opening his greatcoat he drew from his inner 
pocket a handful of gold. "I am prepared," he said coolly, "to over fifteen 
louis for the creature." 



At sight of the gold, the cartels mouth went agape. A greedy light leaped 
into his eyes. He dropped the faggots. Fifteen louis for a done-up nag?" he 
asked incredulously. 



"Aye, friend," the Quaker nodded. "I have need of a smallish horse for my 
son-in-law, Benjamin Biggie." 




Even the onlookers were round-eyed now. Why, fifteen louis would buy a 
fine, high-stepping hackney! 



"I suppose ye want my cart and my wood too," the carter sniveled. 



"I want only the horse," the Quaker replied. "I am Jethro Coke of London, 
and didst thou know me, thou wouldst make thy decision quickly. Unharness 
the poor brute, or I may change my mind." 



The carter laughed roughly and gave his whip into Jethro Coke's hands. 
With one eye on the gold he turned to unfasten Sham. But he was too late. A 
slim brown boy had come seemingly from nowhere at all and was kneeling 
at the horse's feet, unhitching his harness. What surprised the crowd even 
more was to see a tiger cat poke his head out of the boy’s hood and begin to 
lick the horse's face. 



Such a laughter and a clapping went up that it sounded more like an 
audience at a puppet show than a group of early-morning citizens on their 
way to the day's tasks. 



BENJAMIN BIGGLE GOES FOR A RIDE 

THE QUAKER JETHRO COKE, was a retired merchant who owned a 
parcel of land on the outskirts of London. The plight of the overburdened 
horse had moved him to action. Now he saw a boy who also needed help. 



"At the foot of a wooded hill," he told Agba, "I've an olden barn. It has not 
heard the whinny of a horse nor the cushioned footfalls of a cat for many a 
year. Thou and thy cat too will be welcome there. The poor broken-down 
horse has need of you both." 



And so, within less than a week, Sham and Agba and Grimalkin were on 
their way to England. 



When Agba beheld the comfortable bam and the hillside pastures owned 
by Mister Coke, he was certain that the power of the wheat ear had spent 
itself. 



Jethro Coke's wife was dead, and he had given the running of his 
household to Mistress Cockbum, a plump, motherly person who had eyes 
like black raisins and always a red spot on each cheek, as if she had just been 
bending over a hot fire. 



Mistress Cockbum not only found time to roast great haunches of mutton 
and stir up puddings and cakes, but she waited upon Mister Coke's daughter 
and played nursemaid to her new baby. As for Benjamin Biggie, Mistress 
Cockburn set a place at table for him and nodded a stiff good morning to 
him with her starched cap. More than that she would not do. 



"Benjamin Biggie is a fat dolt!" she told Mister Coke on more than one 
occasion. And while Mister Coke was inclined, secretly, to agree with her, 
he tried to make the best of matters for his daughter's sake. Besides, he was a 
birthright Quaker, and he looked upon all God's creatures as friends. 
"Benjamin," he said to his son-in-law shortly after his return from Paris, 

"I've a surprise for thee. Follow me." 



With an expectant gleam in his eye, Benjamin Biggie followed Mister 
Coke down the hill to the bam. There they looked in upon a busy scene. 
Agba, his hood thrown back, was dyeing the white tufts of hair that had 
grown in on Sham's knees where he had cut them in the streets of Paris. 
Meanwhile Grimalkin was sitting on Sham's back, polishing his own 
whiskers. 



"Good morning, friends," the Quaker nodded in rum to Agba and Sham 
and Grimalkin. 




The sound of Mister Coke's voice fell pleasantly upon Sham's ears. And 
Agba’s hands, as they applied the dye made from rootlets, felt comforting to 
him. He stood so still he might have been a stuffed horse in a museum. 



"I bought this poor beast out of pity," Mister Coke was saying to his son- 
in-law. "He appears to be gaunt and bowed by years and ill use, but with the 
good care of this devoted boy he will fill out and make thee a nice quiet 
pacer." 



"Aye, Papa Coke," replied Benjamin Biggie as he squared his hat over his 
small black wig. "Upwards of a year I have needed a horse and carriage." 



The blood mounted in Mister Coke's face. For a long moment he seemed 
unable to speak. Then he controlled his voice with effort. "A horse, aye," he 
said, "but a carriage, no! A carriage is not necessary, and therefore would be 
a vain adornment. Pride and conceit are against my principles." 



"But, Papa Coke," pleaded the son-in-law, biting his lip nervously, "I have 
never sat a horse ! " 



"Pshaw and nonsense! I can assure thee that a child could sit this sedate 
mount. He is just the horse for a draper like thee. In my mind's eye I can 
already see thee, traveling about the countryside, calling on housewives." 



Benjamin Biggie's face was growing as white as a mixing of dough. He 
took a sidelong glance at Sham, who returned the look with a warning 
movement of his ears. 



"It would seem best," said Mister Coke as he lifted the pocket flap of his 
coat and took an almanac from his pocket, "it would seem best to wait until, 
say, Third Month, Fourth Day. The almanac ! promises more settled weather 
then, and the little cob should be ready for a gentle canter. Shall we say the 
forenoon of Third Month, Fourth Day, for thy first ride?" 




Benjamin Biggie sighed in relief. Third Month was a long time off. "Be it 
so, Papa Coke," he said brightly. Then he squinted at the position of the sun. 
"Mistress Cockburn is probably buttering the scones for our tea. We would 
better go." 



Agba watched the two men walk up the hill— the long strides of Mister 
Coke, and the quick, rocking gait of Mister Biggie. Then he went back to 
work on Sham's scars. 



With the coming of spring, Sham lost his starveling look. He began to 
appear the four-year-old that he really was. Once more his coat was 
burnished gold, with the course of his veins showing full and large. 



Under the kind mothering of Mistress Cockburn, Agba thrived too. She 
filled his plate with pigeon pie and dumplings, and when she discovered that 
the boy had a special liking for confections, she saw to it that each day he 
had a goodly helping of whipped syllabub or almond cake, or perhaps an 
apple pasty. All the while the boy ate, Mistress Cockburn kept up such a 
stream of conversation that it was scarcely any time at all before he 
understood such English words as: eat, poor boy, a bit of cake, beautiful 
daughter, fat dolt. Mistress Cockburn even found time to teach Agba his 
letters from her cookery book. 



In return, he would show her the amulets in his bag and Sham's pedigree. 
Of course she could not read the Arabic writing, hut she was tremendously 
impressed with its importance. 



Fourth Day of Third Month dawned. In spite of the promise of the 
almanac, there was a fine drizzle in the air. But Jethro Coke was not one to 
be thwarted by weather. He saw to it that his son-in- law was up and about 
early. He even fitted him with an oiled cloth cover for his hat and an oiled 
cloth cape for his shoulders. 



As Agba led Sham, all saddled and bridled, out of his stall and up the 
winding path to the house, the horse took one look at the happing figure 




coming toward him. Then his ears went back and he jolted to a stop. He 
snorted at the voluminous cape of oiled cloth. He listened to the noise it 
made as it bellied in the wind. Benjamin Biggie must have seemed like some 
great monster to him. It was all Agba could do to keep him from galloping 
back to the bam. 



At sight of Sham, Benjamin Biggie halted too. For a full moment it looked 
as if his knees might buckle under his weight. If Sham was afraid of him, it 
was plain to see that he was twice as fearful of Sham. 



"Be not unnerved, son," said Mister Coke. "It is thy oiled cloth cape that 
alarms the creature. Step right up." 



Agba led Sham to the mounting block, then stood holding the reins. 
"Come, come, Benjamin!" reasoned Mister Coke. "Let not the horse sense 
thy fear. Here, take the reins thyself. Now then, swing aboard!" 



Shaking in fright, Mister Biggie took the reins. Then with his right hand he 
took hold of his left foot and tried to thrust it into the stirrup. Instead, he 
gave Sham a vicious jab in the ribs. 



With a quick side jerk of his head, Sham turned around, knocked Mister 
Biggie's hat off, and sank his teeth in the man's black wig. The moment 
Sham tasted the pomade, however, he dropped the wig on the rain-soaked 
path. 



Benjamin Biggie was furious. "I'll ride the beast if it kills me," he said 
between tight lips. And donning his wig at a rakish angle, he swung his leg 
over Sham's back, heaved into the saddle, and grabbed the reins up short. 



Like a barn swallow in flight Sham wheeled, and with a beautiful soaring 
motion he flew to the safety of his stall. As he dashed through the door, 
Benjamin Biggie was scraped off his back and into a mud puddle, where he 
sprawled, his breeches soaked through and the wind knocked out of his 
body. 




As if this were not enough trouble for one day, Grimalkin pounced on his 
head, screamed in his face, and ruined what was left of the black wig. 



That afternoon as Agba cleaned Sham's tackle a faint sound, very much 
like a chuckle, escaped him every now and again. Even Grimalkin wore a 
smirk on his face as he perched on Sham's crest and watched Agba remove 
all traces of mud. 



Suddenly Agba looked up to find Mister Coke, Bible in hand, standing in 
the doorway. His face looked lined and old. For a long time he stood quietly, 
and the silence was a cord between the boy and himself. 



At last he spoke, using little words and short sentences so that Agba would 
understand. But if he had used no words at all, Agba would have known. 



"Thou and thy horse and thy cat shall ever be dear to me," Mister Coke 
began in halting tones. "Thou must try to understand, lad." 



Agba looked into the deep set blue eyes of Mister Coke. His own eyes 
blurred. 



"It is about my son-in-law, lad," Mister Coke went on. "He is confined to 
his bed from the morning's experience. He is very sore on the matter. It is his 
wish that the horse be sent away at once. And Hannah, who is my only 
daughter, pleads his cause. 



Agba noticed, with a chill of fear, that all this while he bad been tracing 
the wheat ear on Sham's chest. 



Seeing the fright on the boy’s face, Mister Coke put a gentle hand on his 
shoulder. "Come, come, lad. I am merely selling thy horse to the good Roger 
Williams, keeper of the Red Lion Inn. He loans out horses to merchant 




travelers whose mounts are travel-weary. Then, when the merchants are next 
in the vicinity, they return the mounts. Have no fear, lad, Roger Williams 
wilt use thy horse well. And I have the man's word that thou, and thy cat too, 
will find a good home above the stable. He will come for thee and thy 
creatures early tomorrow morning." 



"Now," said Mister Coke as he adjusted his square-rimmed spectacles, "let 
us read a verse or two from the Bible. It will help to cheer our hearts. Then I 
will leave thee without any words of farewell." 



Standing so the light would fall over his shoulder, Mister Coke let the 
Bible open where it would. And suddenly the years seemed to wash away 
and his face was wreathed in smiles. 



'"The horse,"' he read, with gusto, "'rejoiceth in his strength. ... He paweth 
in the valley. ... He is not affrighted.... He swalloweth the ground with 
fierceness and rage. He saith among the trumpets, Ha, Ha! " 



A look that was close to a wink ventured across Jethro Coke's face as he 
closed the book. Then be turned, and sprightly as a boy, leaped across the 
mud puddle where Benjamin Biggie had fallen. 



Agba thought he heard a chuckle and then words coming back to him out 
of the mist: "The horse saith among the trumpets, Ha, Ha!" 



AT THE SIGN OF THE RED LION 

AGBA COULD WVE BEEN HAPPY at the Red Lion if there had been 
only Mister Williams, the keeper of the inn, to consider. He was a mild- 
mannered man, with red, bushy eyebrows that traveled up and down when 
he spoke. And when he smiled, as he did often, they completely hid his 
eyes and gave him a sheep-dog look. Mister Williams was kindness itself. 



It was Mistress Williams who made life hard. She was an enormous 
woman who went into hysterics every time she saw Agba. "Mister 
Williams!" she would shriek at the tap of her lungs. "That — that varmint-in- 
a-hood ! Get im outa here ! 'E gives me the creeps ! It's 'im or me, I tell ye ! " 



The truth of the matter was that Agba’s deep, searching eyes, his soft, 
pattering footsteps, his flowing mantle and quiet ways, were so foreign to 
her own coarseness that she felt ill at ease in his presence. 



As for Grimalkin, the poor cat could not even cross her path without 
sending the woman into a fit. When one night she accidentally stepped on 
his tail, there was such a yowling that she insisted the cat and the boy must 
go that instant. And so, within less than a fortnight after they had arrived, 
Agba and Grimalkin were turned away from the inn without so much as an 
oat cake or a handful of walnuts to take along. 



Mister Williams walked with Agba as far as the road. There he stopped by 
the lanthorn that hung from the sign of the Red Lion. Even by its feeble 
glow Agba could see that the man was distressed. 



"Y understand, lad," he said, his eyebrows working up and down with 
emotion, "y" understand I got me customers to think about. Mistress 
Williams knows an awful lot about cookery. Why, travelers come a good 
long ways just to taste of er whortle- berry pie. I got to tmor er, boy. You trot 
along now to Jethro Coke's house. 'E'll take ye in, I've no doubt of it. As for 
your ’orse," he added with assurance, "I paid my good money fer im an' I 
promises to use ’imwell." 



This he meant to do. But Mister Williams was I not the man for a spirited 
horse like Sham. He made quick, puppet like motions, as if his joints were 
controlled by strings. When he came into Sham's stall, he had a way of 
lunging in. Nearly always he carried some tool— a pitchfork or a hoc or a 
bellows. And he held it like a spear, ready for action. 




The old, plodding horses in the stable were used to Mister Williams, but 
Sham snorted and reared : every time he came near. Then the good man 
would by to calm the horse by giving him a grooming. But here again the 
man was as awkward as a pump without a handle. He knew none of the 
niceties of grooming. He would rub along Sham's barrel from shoulder to 
hip, never realizing that near the hip ' the hairs grew in a little swirl. This 
lack of skill irritated Sham, for Agba was always careful to rub his coat the 
way that the hairs grew. 



When it came to saddling, the innkeeper had an annoying habit of 
dropping the saddle on Sham's back and then shoving it forward into place, 
thus pinching and pulling the hairs the wrong way. When a rider mounted, 
the torment increased. 



It was not surprising that Sham resorted to all manner of tricks to get rid of 
the pinching saddle. He sidled along walls and trees, thus squeezing his 
rider's leg. He twisted his body into a cork- screw. He reared. He kicked. He 
balled. He threw so many guests of the Red Lion that finally Mister 
Williams decided he must do something about it. He called in Silas Slade, a 
weasel-eyed man known as the best horse-breaker in all London. 



"Slade," Mister Williams said, "I hain't never seen a 'orse like this 'un. It’s 
’is spirit. 'E not only unseats the clumsy fellows like me, but the best riders 
in the kingdom. ’E knows'e'll be licked fer it, but it dent matter to 'im. The 
only ’uman bein' what can 'andle ’im is a spindlin' boy." 



"Hmph!" snorted Slade, his eyes gleaming. "I've yet to see the beast I 
couldn't break. 'E's feelin' is oats,’e is. We'll get the meanness out ofim!" 



The first thing Mister Slade did was to saddle Sham in his expert manner 
and swing up. And the next thing he knew he was being carried into the inn, 
and a doctor was bending over him, shaking his head gravely. 



When Mister Slade was poulticed and bandaged, and his leg put in a splint, 
he called Mister Williams to his side. "I'll break the brute yet," he said 




between swollen lips. "See that k's moved into a small stall without a 
window. Tie'im so e can't move. Give'im no grain and only a little water." 



Agba, meanwhile, had never left the vicinity of the Red Lion. He and 
Grimalkin had wandered forlornly about the countryside, sleeping in hedge- 
rows, living on what food they could pick up in woods and fields. 



One moon-white night, Agba’s loneliness seemed more than he could bear. 
He and Grimalkin were seeking shelter in a haycock. They had had nothing 
to eat that day, and neither of them could sleep. Grimalkin was hunting little 
gray field mice, and Agba was looking up at the moon, seeing Sham in its 
shadows. 



The Sultans words were drumming in his ears: "As long as the horse shall 
live ... as long as the horse shall live ..." He must get back to Sham! 



He shook the straw from his mantle, swooped up Grimalkin, and ran 
silently through the night to the Red Lion. 



As he reached the inn, he could see by the light in the taproom the bustling 
form of Mistress Williams. Quickly he changed his plans. Instead of 
approaching the stables by means of the courtyard, he would run around 
behind the brick wall that encircled the stables. If he scaled this wall, he 
could enter Sham's stall without being seen by Mistress Williams. 



Agba felt like a thief, creeping along in the moon-dappled night, groping 
his way around the ivy covered wall. Suddenly he stopped midway of the 
wall. Sham's stall, he figured, would be about opposite where he stood. He 
undid his turban, knotted one end, and caught it on an iron picket that jutted 
over the ledge of the wall. Then, with Grimalkin clinging to his shoulder, he 
climbed the wall and soundlessly slid down into the stable yard. 



Grimalkin was everywhere at once. The familiar smells and sounds of the 
stable maddened him with delight. He streaked first into one stall and then 
another. 




Mistress Williams at the time was in the midst of preparing porridge for 
tomorrow's breakfast. Suddenly she discovered that she had no salt. None at 
all. So she lighted a lanthorn and picked her way out to the stables where 
Mister Williams always kept a skipple of salt for the horses. 



As she entered the stable yard, holding her lanthorn aloft, the rays of light 
fell upon the whirling antics of Grimalkin. 



If the woman had seen a ghost, her screeching could not have been more 
terrible. It penetrated the inn like a bolt of lightning. Out flew Mister 
Williams followed by Silas Slade on crutches, all the journey men who had 
not yet gone to their beds, and a constable of the watch, brandishing his 
horse pistol. 



Agba was frozen with fear. He could not move. His feet seemed part of the 
earth on which he stood. Even Grimalkin stopped in his tracks. Then with a 
flying leap he found the harbor of Agba's arms. '"E's a footpad, constable!" 
yelled Mistress Williams. "A'orse thief, 'e is! Jail’im, I beg o’ ye!" 



Mister Williams eyebrows were working up and down furiously. "The boy 
ain't a bad one," he pleaded to the constable. "’E comes from Morocco, 
and'e’s gentle as a butterfly. What’s more," and he shook his head and 
pointed to his lips, "the boy can't say a word." 



The constable took a quick took at the telltale turban hanging over the 
wall. Then, over the protests of Mister Williams, he clapped a pair of wrist 
irons on Agba and led him away to Newgate Jail. 



NEWGATE JAIL 

AFTER WALKING SWIFTLY FOR TWENTY MINUTES, the 
constable and Agba stood before a massive stone building. 



Open up!" shouted the constable. "Open up! 



"Ho! It's you, Muggins," the sentinel bawled out. "Who’s the poppet in a 
sack yer draggin' in? What's his crime?" While the sentinel and the constable 
were engaged in loud conversation, Agba's eyes were drawn to the towers 
and battlements with muskets trained down on him. 



The moon was washing the face of the jail with cold white rays. It made 
Agba feel cold too. Then, in a niche in the wall, he spied the statue of a 
white robed woman. Curled at her feet was a cat so like Grimalkin that he 
might have sat for the image. Suddenly Agba felt warm again. 



The constable laughed loudly when he saw Agba looking at the wall. 
"Don't nobody try to scale this wall," he said, his teeth showing like white 
fangs in the moonlight. Then he jerked Agba inside a yawning entrance 
where a turkey stood, holding a torch in one hand and a great ring of keys in 
the other. With a whistling sound, the turkey closed the door behind them 
and led the way down a narrow passage. 



The stone floor of the passageway was cold and clammy. Once Agba 
slipped, and the constable boxed his ears sharply. Agba shook in terror. He 
wondered if he and Sham would ever meet again, would ever thunder across 
the fields again, would ever feel the wind beneath the sun. Now the turnkey 
stopped before an iron-bolted door. He unlocked it with a loud jangling of 
keys and motioned the constable and Agba inside. 



Then he went away, carefully bolting the door behind him. 



Wrist and leg irons hung everywhere on the walls, and three tiny scales 
stood on a shelf in an open cupboard. 



"This is the bread chamber," the constable announced. "The scales are to 
measure your bread with. You get eight ounces a day. And good enough for 
a horse thief!" 




Soundlessly the door opened and the chief warder himself entered. He was 
a squat man with a tightly drawn scar on his temple. He sat down at a table, 
reached for a crow-quill pen and pointed it at Agba. 



"Where'd ye pick it up, Muggins?" 



"At the Red Lion, sir." 



"Offense?" 



"Horse thievin'." 

"Name?" 

"That I can't say, sir. The keeper of the Red Lion says he comes from 
Morocco. He can't talk." 

A look of doubt crossed the warder's face. 

"Search him!" 



The big hands of the constable began at Agba’s neck. They found the bag 
containing the amulets and Sham's pedigree. Tearing the bag from Agba’s 
neck, the constable tossed it on the table. The amulets spilled out, making 
little twinkles of light. Quickly the warder scooped them into his pocket. 
Then he poked his fingers into the bag and pulled out the pedigree. 



"Ah-ha!" he nodded, making a pretense at reading the Arabic writing. 
"Foul work afoot!" Fearing to show his ignorance, he tore the pedigree into 
little pieces and swept them to the door. 




Agba's eyes widened in honor. Sham's pedigree destroyed! But the warder 
was hurrying through the examination, not knowing what he had destroyed. 



"What else has he got on him, Muggins?' The constable's hands suddenly 
found the bury warmth of Grimalkin. 



"Pfft! Miaow! Pfft!" Grimalkin hissed and spat and scratched. 



Yelling in fright and pain, the constable grabbed Grimalkin by the tail. 
"Into the cistern ye go!" he shouted. 



Agba's bound hands flew out in a pleading gesture. They must not take 
Grimalkin away ! He would have no one at all to care for. 



All at once the warder was on his feet, the pulse in the scar at his temple 
beating wildly. "Muggins," he whispered hoarsely, "I live in the shadow of 
the statue out there night and day. The cat at the dame's feet is supposed to 
be Dick Whittington's own cat!" 



He wiped the perspiration from his brow and slumped into his chair. Agba 
felt a thin thread of hope. He watched the warder's face. He counted the 
pulse beats that showed in the scar. One— two —three— four— five— six ... 



"Who's Dick Whittington?" faltered the constable. 



'Who's Dick Whittington!" the warder thundered. "Egad, man, he was 
thrice Lord Mayor of London. And 'twas a cat that made his fortune. 'Twas a 
cat he sold to the Sultan of Morocco to clean up the rats there. And 'twas the 
Lord Mayor himself who had the statue built." He glowered at the constable. 
"How dare ye offer to kill a cat? How dare ye? It's bad luck. Give it back to 
the boy, I tell ye." 



Muggins' mouth fell open. Dazed, he handed the cat back to Agba. 




"But," added the warder, suddenly ashamed of his fear, "the cat gets no 
bread. And eight ounces is too much for the boy. Six will do." Quickly he 
fastened a set of leg irons to Agba's ankles and summoned a guard who 
stood outside the door. 



"Lock him up in the Stone Hold!" he commanded. 



Dragging his heavy iron chains with every step, Agba was led away to the 
dungeon. 



THE VISITORS' BELL 



THE DAYS THAT FOLLOWED were dismal and wretched for Agba. He 
had nothing at all to do. Once a guard told him to clean the dungeon, but he 
laughed coarsely as he said it, knowing there was neither broom nor rag with 
which to clean. 



Agba could not even move without stumbling over someone's legs or 
irons, and being kicked as a result. At last he crawled into a comer and sat 
motionless in a kind of dream, holding Grimalkin by the hour. 



Days stretched out into weeks. He shared with Grimalkin his bread and 
barley gruel and the cooked-out morsel of meat which the prisoners were 
given once a week. Grimalkin repaid Agba's generosity. The dungeon was 
freer of mice and rats than was the warder's own bedchamber. 



On visiting days, Agba heard the visitor's bell clang loudly again and 
again, followed by the scraping of chains as his prison mates shuffled to the 
visitors' room. But no one ever came to see him. He and Grimalkin were left 
quite alone. 



All this while the Quaker and his housekeeper, Mistress Cockbum, thought 
that Agba and Sham were happily located at the Red Lion. Busy though 
Mistress Cockburn was, she missed Agba's quiet ways, and one fair 
summer's day she decided to go to the Red Lion and take him a treat. She 
baked a goodly batch of sugar tarts and put them in a hamper along with 
some newly ripe peaches, the browned crust of a Cheshire-cheese pudding, 
and a few garden carrots. Then she covered the hamper with a white linen 
cloth and set off for the inn. 



She hummed a little tune as she bearded the coach, thinking how pleased 
the poor boy would be to taste his favorite sugar tarts. And she was thinking, 
too, how his somber black eyes would light up when he saw the cleanly 
scrubbed carrots for his beloved Sham and the Cheshire-cheese nubbins for 
Grimalkin. As the coach jolted along, she kept peeking in under the white 
linen napkin to make sure that her tarts were not getting squashed nor the 
peaches bruised. 



So busy was she, trying to think of Little happenings to tell Agba, that she 
hardly noticed how fast the horses were traveling. And suddenly, far sooner 
than she had expected, the driver was calling out, "Cow Cross Lane at the 
sign of the Red Lion." She alighted as quickly as she could, brushed the dust 
from her bonnet, shook out the folds of her skirt, and walked briskly into the 
great mom of the inn. 



"Good day, sir," she said to a busy little man with red eyebrows. "Are you 
the keeper of the Red Lion?' 



Mister Williams' eyebrows traveled up and down, and a pleased 
expression came over his face. 



"That I am, my good woman," he spoke in his best manner. "A vast weight 
you are carrying there, I mean the hamper, madam. Pray, may I help you?" 



Mistress Cockbum thanked him kindly, then stated her business. "It is 
three calendar months," she said, "since a little hooded horseboy left the 




household of my employer, Jethro Coke. And to say the truth, sir, I have 
missed the poor boy sorely. If you judge it proper, sir, I should like to trot 
around to your stable and surprise him at his work." 



Mister Williams opened his mouth to answer, but shut it quickly again, for 
his wife had risen up from behind the bar counter like a jack-in-the-box. 



"You'll find the thief in Newgate Jail:’ she snapped. Then she took her 
broom and began sweeping her way toward Mistress Cockbum, who soon 
found herself out in Cow Cross Lane in front of the Red Lion. 



She stood there, dazed in the very center of the lane, unmindful that a 
coach-and-six was rattling toward her at a great pace. The driver had to turn 
sharply to avoid hitting her. 



With much pulling and shouting, he halted his horses. Then the window of 
the coach was lowered, and the plumed head of an elderly but beautiful 
woman looked out. 



"For your welfare, madam," spoke a silvery voice, "I pray you to step back 
out of the lane." 



Mistress Cockbum came to with a start. "Begging your pardon," she said 
with a pretty curtsy, "but the honestest lad I know has been sent to New- 
gate Jail, and I am all a-t witter." 



The plumed head disappeared. There was the sound of a low-voiced 
conference. Then the coach- man, in scarlet livery, stepped down from his 
box and opened the door of the coach. Out stepped a gentleman. He was 
powdered and bewigged like all noblemen of his day, but that was not what 
Mistress Cockburn noticed. What impressed Mistress Cockbum was the 
kindliness of his gray eyes and the courtesy with which he addressed her. 




"It so happens," he was saying, "that we are on our way to Newgate now. 
The lady to whom you have just spoken is Her Grace, the Dowager Duchess 
of Marlborough." 



Mistress Cockburn clapped her hand over her mouth in astonishment. 
Why, the Dowager Duchess of Marlborough was as much at home in 
Windsor Castle as the Queen herself. It was almost like meeting the Queen! 



"The Duchess is my mother-in-law," the nobleman went on, "and I am the 
Earl of Godolphin." 



Mistress Cockburn made a low curtsy, inclining her head until her nose 
grazed the handle of her hamper. 



The Earl returned her bow. "As you mayhap know," he said, "the Duchess 
oft visits the prisoners to study their cases. Since today is Visitors' Day, 
madam, the Duchess and I would be pleased to have your company to 
Newgate." 



Mistress Cockburn flushed with pleasure. She was too overwhelmed to 
talk. So she said nothing at all, but climbed into the coach and sat facing the 
beautiful Duchess. 



Apparently the Duchess was in a great hurry, for the driver cracked his 
whip and the coach went flying down the lane and on toward the heart of 
London. The rattle and clatter made by hooves and wheels was so great that 
there was no chance for conversation. Mistress Cockburn had all she could 
do to clutch her bonnet with one hand and her hamper with the other. 



Meanwhile in the Stone Hold at Newgate Jail Agba and Grimalkin were 
listening to the visitors' bell and to the sound of footsteps and chains leaving 
their dungeon. Finally the bell became quiet the clanking of chains grew 
fainter and fainter, and their small world was sealed in silence. 




Agba lay down on the meager litter of straw. Perhaps if he slept he would 
be lost in a dream, and the prison walls would fall away and he and Sham 
would be together again. Perhaps in his dream he would be grooming Sham, 
going over the wheat ear quickly, then lingering long on the white spot. 



Presently Grimalkin hooked his paw over Agba's arm as if to attract his 
attention. The ponderous bolt was rasping along its iron groove. The door 
was coming open. A breath of air was Bowing into the cell. It smelled of 
lavender mingled with the fragrance of freshly baked cakes. 



For a few seconds the light from the corridor blinded Agba. Then his eyes 
went wide. There, standing on the threshold, was the chief warder, rubbing 
his hands and bowing like a reed in the wind. And behind him stood 
Mistress Cockburn with a nobleman and a lady. Mistress Cockburn's eyes 
were blacker than burnt raisins and her cheeks flamed. "It's him all right!" 
she exclaimed, bursting into tears. "Oh, my poor boy ..." 



Agba smiled at Mistress Cockburn, and such a warmth and happiness 
coursed through his body that he was afraid he was going to cry too. 



"As I was telling ye, yer Grace," the warder was saying, "he can't talk at 
all. The only sounds he makes is a singsong humming, sort of like a lullaby 
when he and the cat beds down for the night." 



"And what," asked the Duchess, "is the boy’s offense? 



The pulse showing in the warder's scar was beating fast. 



"As I understand it, yer Grace," he said, 'the boy climbed over the wall into 
the stable yard of the Red Lion in the dead of night. Horse thievin' was his 
business." 



Mistress Cockburn flew into a rage. "Its not so, yer Grace. The boy only 
wanted to see his horse, which he brought all the way from Africa. And he 




himself wears the story of the horse in a little bag around his neck. Show it 
to the lady and gentle- men, Agba." 



Agba's hand went to his neck. He shook his head. The warder hesitated, 
then spoke. Yer Grace, the lady says the truth. The boy was wearin' a bag 
around his neck, and the constable he... he... 



"He what?" demanded the Earl. "Well, the papers is gone, my Lord, but I'll 
give him the bag with the amulets in it." 



He took the bag from his pocket and with a false show of kindness tied it 
about the boy’s neck. 



"My poor boy! My poor boy!" Mistress Cockbum said over and over. 
Then she opened her hamper and placed a tart in Agba's hand. She gave 
Grimalkin a crust of Cheshire-cheese cake, and quickly covered the basket 
to hide the brightly scrubbed carrots. 



Agba bit into the delicious tart. He longed to tell Mistress Cockbum — in 
words she had taught him from her own cookery book — how good it tasted. 
But all he did was to eat and smile through his tears. 



"I cannot help tumbling out my thoughts," the Duchess was saying to the 
Earl in her tinkling, music-box voice. "My life is very near run out and my 
only pleasure is doing good. Let us inquire into this case, and if it prove a 
worthy one, why could not ... 



She flashed a radiant smile upon the Earl, and left her words Buttering in 
mid-air. 



The Earl of Godolphin caught up her sentence and finished it off. "And if 
his case proves worthy," he said quietly, "I will want him to help in my 
stables at Gog Magog. By all that is good and holy, I promise it!" 




Agba looked up quickly. It was plain to see that he had a question to ask. 



The Earl of Godolphin chuckled deep down in his throat. "Be eased of 
your fears," he said. "We will go at once to the Red Lion to buy your horse. 
He will be welcome at Gog Magog. And the cat too. There is room for all." 



THE GREEN HILIS OF GOG MAGOG 

THAT SAME FAIR SUMMER'S DAY Sham was lying in his stall at the 
Red Lion. He no longer needed to be shackled. No one feared him any more. 
He was too weak to kick and charge. 



For weeks he had lived in a kind of daze, willing to lie on his bed of straw 
and let the world go on about him. Over the half-door of his stall he could 
hear the rattle of pewter cups in the inn and listen to the comings and goings 
of horses and journey- men. He caught the mingled smell of dust and sweat 
when the horses came in. He caught the rain smells and heard the first drops 
beat out a mournful medley on the roof over his head. He snuffed the winds. 
But he was no longer a part of the smells and the sounds. 



Mister Williams shook his head sadly every time he passed Sham's stall. 
"That there 'orse,'e's got a gnawin' pull inside ’im. E’s missin' that boy." 



On this summer's afternoon, the sound made by Mistress Williams banging 
her pots and pans was suddenly muffled by the thunder of hooves and the 
rumble of wheels. 



Lying half awake, half asleep, Sham heard the other horses in their stalls 
neigh a greeting to the newcomers. He heard the high, scrabbling voice of 
Mistress Williams. Then a silence broken by many footsteps and the low 
laughter of a gentle- woman. 



The next thing he knew the door of his stall was thrown open, a feather- 
light creature was by his side, and a boy's slim brown fingers were stroking 
his neck. 



Sham touched Agba's cheek with his feelers, as if to make sure of him. 
Then an excited whicker escaped him. He lipped the boy. He swiped his 
cheek with a great pink tongue. He tasted the warm, salty tears. Then he 
neighed his happiness to the whole wide world. 



Thrusting his forefeet in front of him, he struggled to his feet. Lying down 
was no way to greet friends ! He shuddered the straw from his coat, as if to 
apologize for his lack of grooming. 



A change came over him. He snorted at the half- circle of people about 
him, at the handsome gentleman in wine-colored velvet, at the lady in silk 
and gold lace, at the innkeeper and his wife standing at a respectful distance. 



His eyes came back to Agba. "Let us be off!" he seemed to say. 
"Somewhere. Anywhere!" 



The Earl of Godolphin laughed in agreement. Then be exchanged a few 
quiet words with Mister Williams, and the arrangements to buy Sham were 
quickly made. In no time at all Agba and Grimalkin were mounted on Sham, 
while a gathering of all the chance droppers-in at the Red Lion gawped 
curiously at the coach-and-six, and at the hooded boy and the tiger cat who 
sat a well-mannered bay horse. 



Mister Williams' eyebrows were traveling up and down at a great rate. 
"Split my windpipe!" he said to a journeyman who had once been tossed oh 
by Sham, "it hain't the same beast, I tell ye! 'E hain't stubborn nor vicious at 
all. 'E and the boy are all of one color and all of one mind. They can't wait to 
go! D'uou know," he exclaimed, slapping the man on the back, "that 'orse— 
E's got brains ! " 




The Earl leaned his head out of the coach window. "We will lead the way 
up to Gog Magog," he called to Agba. "Our pace will be slow to 
accommodate the weakened condition of your mount." And he smiled a little 
smile of encouragement. 



If the road to the hills of Gog Magog had been the road to the garden of 
heaven, the three silent creatures could not have been happier. It seemed as 
if the green meadows and the woodlands and clear streams had been created 
for them alone. The sun warmed their backs. The wind blew for their 
pleasure. They sucked it deep into their lungs. It washed them free. 



Agba was almost sorry when the driver of the coach pulled to a stop before 
a gate surmounted by the crest of a dolphin. He wished the ride could go on 
forever. 



The Duchess, however, seemed glad the journey was over. 



"I declare, my lad," she sighed, leaning her head wearily against the gilded 
frame of the coach window, "you and your mount and your kitling appear 
fresher than when you started." 



Now the gate was opened by two men in livery, and the coach-and-six led 
the way over a bridge and up a gentle hill between yews and hawthorn trees 
to the stables of the Earl of Godolphin. 



Agba could not believe his eyes. It was the stable, not the house, that 
crowned the hill, and there was a stream encircling the hill where mares and 
their foals were drinking. He jumped to his bare feet. The turf was soft and 
springy. The green grass tickled up between his toes. He touched Sham's 
white spot with his toe. The white spot! The white spot! Here at last Sham 
could fulfill the promise it held. 



Grimalkin, who had settled into the saddle in great dignity, now cuffed 
Agba with his paw, as much as to say, "Mind your manners, the Earl is 
headed this way. 




Agba stood at attention, but he could not keep his shining eyes from 
gathering in the whole scene: the long range of box stalls opened to the 
south sun, the shady paddock, the park for a training ground. Why, there 
were no walls anywhere ! Only green hedges afar off, where the meadows 
came to an end. And rows of lm trees brushing the clouds. And willows 
trailing their fingers in the stream. 



An exercise boy came into the yard with a string of running horses. Their 
haunches gleamed in the sun. 



Agba drew a quick breath. Soon Sham's coat would be sleek and shining 
too. Soon Sham would be the wind beneath the sun. Soon he would be 
showing his gratitude to the Earl, winning races, bringing honor to Gog 
Magog. 



Agba’s thoughts were cut short. A spidery man with a waggish air about 
him was presenting himself to the Earl of Godolphin. 



"A very g-g-good morning your Lordship," he stuttered. And as he bowed 
he took an appraising look at the underfed horse, the strangely dressed boy, 
and the tiger cat sitting the horse with a superior grin. 



The Earl of Godolphin followed his glance. 



Twickerham," he said, "I have brought you a new horseboy, and this is his 
little bay stallion. I'll luck has dogged their footsteps. They have traveled a 
hard road and a long one. From henceforward they will be in your charge." 



For only an instant a cloud darkened the groom's face. "Very g-good, your 
Lordship," he said. 




The Earl dismissed the coach and turned to Agba. "I once read a novel laid 
in Morocco," he said. "The characters had curious names — curious to me, of 
course. There was El Elayanie and Hamed O Bryhim, and one was Agba. 
Since I have to call you by some name, I shall choose the shortest one: 

Agba. I desire you to give me your opinion of this name by the strength of 
your handclasp." 



With his head groom standing by in open- mouthed amazement, the Earl 
of Godolphin, son of the Lord Treasurer of England, held out his hand to 
Agba. The small brown hand and the long-fingered white one met, and there 
was such a wringing clasp between them that the Earl's face broke into a 
great smile. Agba smiled too. If only the Earl knew! He had chosen the 
name that was already the boy’s own. 



"Agba" he said, "you will be in the care of my head groom, Mister Titus 
Twickerham. He is breeder and trainer for the Gog Magog stables. I hope 
and pray that you will be happy." 



Agba bowed first to the Earl and then to the groom, blinking hard to keep 
away the tears of happiness. 



The Earl of Godolphin now cleared his throat and fingered his neck cloth a 
trifle uneasily. "Twickerham," he hesitated, "what think you of the merits of 
the stallion?" 



The groom searched the Earl's face, trying to read his feelings there. 

Seeing only an open countenance, he rocked back and forth on his heels in 
importance. Then he approached Sham's head. Instantly Sham nosed the sky. 
Mister Twickerham reached for the bridle. He tried to force Sham's head 
down, but it was only with Agba’s help that he could look into the horse's 
mouth. He tried to lift a hoof, but Sham's legs were pillars driven into the 
earth. Yet with only a feather touch, Agba lifted a foot as easily as if it were 
Grimalkin's paw. 




Red of face, Titus Twickerham stepped back. He measured the horse with 
his eyes. From withers to hoof. From withers to tail. Again and again he 
measured. He noted the scars on the horse's knees. Then he pursed his lips. 



"Your L-lordship," he began, "this-here beast would be the laughing stock 
at the race-c-c-course. He's not lusty enough to endure the distances. With 
the b-best care in the kingdom he'd still be a broken-kneed cob. And!" here 
Mister Twickerham pointed a thin forefinger, while his face gave out the 
faintest suggestion of a sneer, "if your Lordship will k-kindly note the height 
of the crest, he will see'tis almost a deformity. 



"To my mind," he concluded, enjoying the importance of the moment, 
"this ain't a running horse, and d-d-don't let nobody tell your Lordship that 
he'd make a good sire, either. Colts with him for a father would be violent- 
tempered and weedy as c-c-cattails." 



The Earl of Godolphin did not change expression. For long seconds he 
stood perfectly still. "If this be true," he said at last, "feed him until he loses 
his gaunt look. Then we'll see what's to be done with him. Perhaps he can 
work the machine that pumps water into the fish pond." 



Agba looked at the Earl aghast. Was Sham, the pride of the Sultan's royal 
stables, never to have a chance to prove himself? Was he always to be a 
work horse? 



HOBGOBLIN 



AGBA'S DISAPPOINTMENT was a cloud over his head. Sometimes 
when he rode Sham, the cloud seemed to lift and take wing for a few hours. 
But as he dismounted it settled on his shoulders again, enveloping him like 
his own black and ragged mantle. 



He tried to push the cloud away with the thought that Sham was being 
restored to health. Here were oats and corn and hay in plenty. But whenever 
Titus Twickerham urged Agba to feed Sham more liberally, Agba knew 
the groom had but one thought in mind. He was eager to see Sham in the 
humble role of work horse. 



And so the cloud persisted. It was there even when the Duchess of 
Marlborough visited the stables, bringing with her leaves of sugar for Sham, 
a beef kidney for Grimalkin, and a gift for Agba too. On one occasion the 
Duchess invited Agba into her two-wheeled chaise to present a race calendar 
to him. In a voice that was more like song than talk, she read to him, 
pointing out a few easy words such as "horse," "bay," "colt," "post." 



She promised to order for him a new mantle woven from goat's hair. "It 
will be as fine as the mantle worn by the Sultan himself," she smiled. Agba 
tried to repay her kindness by washing and polishing her chaise and by doing 
well what- ever jobs Titus Twickerham asked of him. 



here was only one duty that Agba disliked, and he disliked it with such an 
intensity that the blood pounded hotly through him all the while he did it. It 
was the cleaning of Hobgoblin's stall. 



Hobgoblin was a big and, to Agba’s way of thinking, a coarsely made 
stallion. He was as unlike Sham as a bull is unlike a stag. Yet Hobgoblin was 
king of cog Magog, and his stall a palace. The walls were padded thickly 
with the fuzz of cattails covered over with leather, so that Hobgoblin would 
not mar the sleekness of his hide nor the perfection of his tail. The floor was 
laid with chalk and abundantly strewn with straw which Agba had to change 
three times a day. A manger of wood was not good enough for Hobgoblin. 
His was of marble. As for his blankets, they were emblazoned with the Earl 
of Godolphin’s own crest. Even his fly sheets bore the crest. 



"Hobgoblin's th-th-the Earl's star o v hope, Hobgoblin is," Titus 
Twickerham told Agba one rainy day when they were both in his stall. 
"Flowing in this-here stallion's veins is the p-p-purplest blood in the k-k- 
kingdom." 




The groom stopped to wipe out the comer of Hobgoblin's eye with a clean 
pocket handkerchief, then went on. "The Earl — he's g-got his heart set on 
Hobgoblin. Through this-here stallion he's got hopes to b-breed the best line 
o' horses not only in the kingdom but in the world." 



Agba preferred to listen to the drumming of the rain, but the groom's voice 
rose above it. 



"Right this m-minute, whilst we're standin' here, the Earl is lookin' for a 
mere worthy of Hobgoblin. Now," he said, rapping his knuckles on Agba's 
head, "now ye understand why Hobgoblin's stall is finer th-th-than yer runt's. 
Hobgoblin's king of Gog Magog, he is!" 



After that, whenever Agba pitched the old straw out of Hobgoblin's stall 
and laid in the new, his lips were set in a firm line. He hated Hobgoblin. 
Hated the bigness of him. Hated his powerful legs and hindquarters. Hated 
the fat sleekness of him. But most of all he hated Hobgoblin's eye. It had no 
brilliance at all. Only a sleepy look except when the animal was aroused. 
Then it showed a white ring 



"Here is where Sham should be," Agba thought with every thrust of his 
fork. "Purple blood, indeed! Sham's ancestors came from the stable of the 
Prophet himself!" 



One day, soon after the groom had explained Hobgoblin's importance, cog 
Magog seethed with excitement. The Earl of Godolphin made frequent visits 
to Hobgoblin's stall. Usually his gait was dignified and his bearing stately, 
but this day his steps were quick and his words clipped short. 



As for Titus Twickerham, he was so nervous that he could not control his 
stammering. 




"Yy-y-you, Ag-g-g-ba. Y-you lay a fresh 1-1-Litter of st-st-straw in the new 
m-m-mare's stall. And w-w-wash out the mang-g-g-ger. Then p-p-put in a 
measure of wheat b-b-bran. The mere Lady Roxana arrives t-t-t-today." The 
excited pitch of Mr. Twickerham's voice when he said "Lady Roxana" made 
Agba bite his lips. It was the very tone he used in speaking of Hobgoblin. 
Lady Roxana! Hobgoblin! Hobgoblin! Lady Roxana! The names rankled in 
the boy’s mind. He hated them both. Without even seeing Roxana, he knew 
she would be fat and sway-backed and ugly. 



As Agba prepared the mare's stall, he saw the Earl and a dozen noblemen 
come down to the pad- dock. They walked about, talking in hushed, 
expectant voices, twirling their riding rods, taking pinches of snuff, sneezing 
lightly. 



Suddenly a cry went up from the grooms. '"Ere she comes! 'Ere she 
comes!" 



Agba flew out of the stall. He made held glasses of his fists. He strained 
his eyes down the lane. But the late-aftemoon sun blinded him. At first he 
saw nothing at all. Only the hawthorn trees and the yews, standing dark and 
still. 



Then all at once he could make out a blur of motion. It cleared. It became a 
shiny red van drawn by two dapple-grays. 



The grays were clattering over the bridge now, and up the hill between the 
yews and hawthorns. They were nearing the stables. The driver, an 
enormous man in red lively, was drawing rein. As the horses jammed to a 
stop, a lackey hopped down from his perch beside the driver and went 
around to the back of the van. He let down the tail gate. Then, bowing from 
the waist, he banded a leading string to the Earl's head groom. 



"Lady Roxana, daughter of The Bald Galloway!" His voice boomed out as 
if he were announcing a princess at a ball. 




The noblemen and all the horseboys waited tensely. Titus Twickerham 
looked to the Earl of Godolphin with questioning eyebrows. The Earl 
nodded. And so, bristling with importance, the spidery figure of the groom 
led Lady Roxana down the ramp and into the paddock. Slowly, gently, as if 
he were unveiling a statue, he lifted her hood and threw off her scarlet 
blanket. 



An awed silence fell over the little company. Then, as though the wall of a 
dike had given way, there was a torrent of noise. Jeweled hands broke into 
spontaneous applause. Every voice shouted in admiration. 



The Earl of Godolphin laughed aloud. Here, at last, was the answer to his 
dream! 



Except for her tail, which was a smoky plume, Roxana was the shininess 
of white marble in the sun. And she wore no housings at all, only a halter 
made of silken rope, and across the browband were tiny rosettes of blue 
satin. 



Roxana pawed the springy turf. She seemed glad that the jolting, jarring 
ride was over. A high whinny escaped her. 



Suddenly there was an answering whinny, so shrill and joyous it sent 
shivers racing up and down Agba's spine. 



"Aha!" spoke up one of the noblemen. "Hobgoblin is already welcoming 
his mate." 



A smile played about Agba's lips. The whinny of welcome had come, nor 
from Hobgoblin, but from Sham. 



For a full moment Roxana alerted. Her head went up, her tail went up, her 
ears pricked. The noblemen gasped. If Roxana had been beautiful before, 
she was a living statue now. 




Agba's heart melted. He had intended to hate Roxana, but all the hate was 
washed away. 



"What symmetry!" exclaimed the Duke of Bridgewater. 



"She is built like a fawn!" cried Lord Villiers. 



"Aye. Exquisitely made," said the Earl of Marmaduke. 



Agba scarcely heard their remarks. Way down at the end of the stables he 
saw Sham's head thrust out. He watched Roxana toss her mane at him, Like 
a girl tossing her curls. He heard her whinny, this time softer, fuller, than the 
last. 



Now there were two answers. The deep, grunting neigh of Hobgoblin and 
the ecstatic bulging of Sham. 



"Twickerham," the Earl spoke tensely, "Hobgoblin shall meet his mate. 
Have him brought out." 



Again the paddock was bathed in stillness. It was so quiet that Agba could 
hear a leaf drifting lazily to earth. A goldfinch flew overhead in yellow area, 
spinning a thin thread of song. 



Titus Twickerham’s words rang in Agba's ears. A mare worthy of 
Hobgoblin. That overfed monster! Agba could stand the unfairness no 
longer. He ran to Sham's stall. He threw wide the door. Out streaked a 
tongue of golden fire. It was Sham, trumpeting to the skies, Sham tasting his 
freedom with a wild leap. He overtook Hobgoblin being led out of his stall. 
He whirled around and challenged the king of cog Magog. Hobgoblin jerked 
his head into the air, breaking the catch of his lead rope. For one deathly still 




moment the two stallions faced each other. Than they charged, the noisy 
thud- ding of their bodies lost in savage screams. 



The grooms were benumbed, stupefied. For seconds they were unable to 
move. Then they all began running at once, getting in each other's way, 
throwing bucketful’s of water at the furious stallions. It was useless — like 
trying to smother a forest fire with hearth brooms. The air crackled and 
ripped with the sound of flailing hooves and snorts and shrieks. 



Sham was little and quick. His legs were steel rods. He danced on them, 
making fierce thrusts. Hobgoblin was like a great war horse beside Sham. 
Now he swung his lumbering body around and gave a tremendous kick with 
all the power of his hindquarters. 



Agba saw Sham drop down on the ground to miss the blow. In a second he 
was up again, spinning around to face Hobgoblin, beating at him with his 
flinty hooves. He saw Sham open wide his mouth and use his strong young 
teeth, not to bite, but to hammer with. The blows seemed no heavier than 
hailstones to Hobgoblin. Yet they maddened him into a wild rage. He 
lunged, baring his teeth, ready to sink them into Sham's neck. 



With a mighty cry, Sham tossed his head upward, catching Hobgoblin 
under the jaw, actually lifting him up on his hind feet. The little horse rained 
blow upon blow on Hobgoblin, forcing him farther and farther up on his 
hind legs until finally he fell over backward, thrashing and kicking. 



Agba beat his fists together. The great Hobgoblin was down! The massive, 
heaving, hulking body was grunting in pain and defeat. 



A ringing cry of victory burst from Sham. With a rush he sought Lady 
Roxana. He leaped about her, prancing lightly as if his legs were set on 
springs. He arched his magnificent neck. He plumed his tail. His eyes 
were bold, his body wet and shining. Sham, the Beet of foot, the pride of the 
Sultan's stables, was on parade before the beautiful Roxana. 




Suddenly they were together, touching each other with their noses, talking 
in excited little nickers. Then, manes and tails in Bowing motion, they 
streaked to the far end of the paddock. It seemed plain to Agba that both 
Sham and Roxana wanted to be far away from the distasteful, groaning 
Hobgoblin. 



Agba wanted to sing for joy. He longed to talk, to laugh, to cry. His hands 
flew to his throat helplessly. But it was Roxana whose voice substituted for 
his own. It was her whinny, high and joyful that said all he wanted to say. 



WICKED FEN 

AFTER A MOMENT OF STUNNED SILENCE, the Earl of Godolphin 
led his guests away. Twickerham ran to Hobgoblin, rolled him onto his belly 
and helped him rise. When the horse was once more in his stall, the groom 
followed the Earl. He must have orders before he saw Agba. 



Agba, meanwhile, had gone back to work to avoid showing his joy. Not 
until darkness closed in did he realize what he had done. Then the gravity of 
it struck him. He had acted without orders. He had allowed Sham to fight 
Hobgoblin. Sham might have killed the Earl's favorite stallion, his star of 
hope! 



The boy swallowed hard. He had hurt the kindliest friend he had ever had. 
He was ready to take whatever punishment might come. 



So it was with no surprise that, as he stood in Sham's stall, he saw coming 
toward him the quick, spidery legs of Titus Twickerham. They cast long, 
frightening shadows because of the lanthorns which the groom held in each 
hand. 



"Agba!" he called out as soon as he was within hearing. "What I has to say 
can be said over the door." 



There was not the slightest hesitation or stammering in Mister 
Twickerham's speech. It was as if he had wound up his words in a ball and 
now had only to unwind them. 



The Earl wants to be quit of ye," he pronounced. "He don't want nobody 
ever again to mention ye or yer horse in his presence. He can't trust himself 
to look at ye. Not ever. Not ever, do ye hear?" 



Agba bent his head. He could understand. He thought of the wheat ear, and 
unconsciously began tracing the swirling hairs on Sham's chest. 



"Look me in the eye, ye blockhead! Take yer fingers off o' that weed. 
Listen sharp! All yer nag is fit for is cat’s meat. Yet his Lordship says ye're 
to saddle him immjate and follow the North Star’til it brings ye to Upware 
Inn. Get a-goid with that saddle!" 



Agba went for the saddle. His hands were shaking as he laid it on Sham's 
withers and slid it into place. Sham stretched his neck in Mister 
Twickerham's direction, opened wide his mouth, bared his teeth, and let 
forth a high and mighty neigh. 



"Kill-devil!" the groom spat. "Laugh all ye want to now. Ye an' yer hooded 
turtle of a boy, and yer cat too, is going to Wicken Len. And there, in the 
dismal swampland, ye're going to end out yer days." 



Agba felt a chill. The night mist was rising. It reminded him of the dank 
air of Newgate Jail. 



"Shiverin' in yer timbers, be ye, Agba?" taunted the groom. "Ye an yer 
high-soundin' book name! Now we'll see if it'll help ye to follow directions. 
When ye comes to Upware Inn, ye'll see letters written on the gable of it. 
They spell out: 'Live Miles from Anywhere. No Hurry.’ " 




Titus Twickerham scratched his head. "Huh!" he exclaimed. "Maybe ye 
can't read any more'n ye can talk. But no matter. Ye can't miss the inn if ye 
follow the North Star. Then ye turn right fer five miles ad ye'll come upon . 
." here the groom poked his head close to Agba’s and let the words whistle 
through his teeth, "an' yell come upon Wicken Fen! And there, in the miry 
bog, ye'll find a ghostlike hovel waitin' just for ye." 



Agba’s hands had suddenly grown icy. It was all he could do to buckle 
Sham's girth strap. But at last he stood ready, taking nothing in his saddlebag 
but Sham's rub-rag and a spool toy which the Duchess had given Grimalkin. 



"His Lordship is far too kind to ye," muttered the groom as he opened the 
door of the stall. "He says fer me to fasten a lanthorn to each o' yer stirrups. 
Then ye wont fall into the dykes and get drownt. Though, to my mind, 
’twould be good riddance of all of ye. Then I wouldn't have to be sending ye 
barley and oats every fortnight like I'm ordered to." 



He came so close now that his coarse hair scratched Agba's face. "Fer me," 
his voice rasped, "I'd sooner be buried alive as spend one night in the fen 
country." 



Grimalkin began yowling nervously. He leaped onto Mister Twickerham's 
head and from there to Sham's saddle. From the height of Sham's back he 
looked down on the groom, as much as to say, "A mounting block! That's all 
ye are ! " 



The groom made a wry face at the cat. "Humpf," he scoffed. "Ye an’ yer 
mute friends be nothin' but fen slodgers ! " 



Now Agba swung up on Sham, and together the three creatures went out 
into the night. 



Life was hard in the fenland, even though Titus Twickerham carried out 
the Earl’s orders. When the roads were passable, he sent barley and oats by a 




peasant farmer, who delivered his load and drove off as fast as his horse 
would take him. 



After he had gone, Agba would light a peat fire and make barley gruel for 
all to share. 



Sometimes Agba speared for eels and pike in a crooked stream. But he was 
clumsy, as he had nothing but a sharp stick for a spear. Besides, the coarse 
sedge grass along the streams was razor- sharp, and it cut Agba's arms and 
legs until he had to bind them with strips from his turban. So it was not often 
that he and Grimalkin enjoyed the delicacy of fresh fish. 



Titus Twickerham had told the truth about Wicken Fen, Agba thought in 
the long nights when the wind moaned and the owls hooted. It was dismal 
ground. 



In winter, a white wilderness of snow walled the three creatures inside 
their hovel. Then Agba's mind hew back to all the promises he had made 
Sham, and his eyes would search Sham's to catch the faintest mistrust in 
their purple depths. 



The only answer he got was Sham's lips nibbling along his neck. "We're in 
this together," he said in his own way. "Fen slodgers, all three of us!" Then 
with a nervous foreleg he would paw the door of the hut as if he wanted to 
be out in the howling gales. Agba would lift the hoof and feel the soundness 
of it— the hard wall, the cushiony frog. "See!" he would tell himself. "Sham 
is well and strong. The power of the wheat ear cannot last." And he laughed 
to feel the good warm shagginess of Sham's coat and the length of his own 
hair. 



Winter spent itself, and spring came, scattering wind flowers among the 
spare blades of grass. Sham rolled and rolled, trying to rub off his heavy 
winter coat. And when he stood up, he left great bunches of his hair lying on 
the grass. As soon as his back was turned, thrushes and finches and starlings 
picked up the hair and lined their nests with it. 




Another year passed. And in all that time Agba saw but one human 
creature beside the peasant farmer. This one called himself a wild-fowler be- 
cause he trapped ducks and geese. He looked curiously out of his birdlike 
eyes at the three castaways. Then he shook his head and went his way, as if 
be liked his own company better. 



The wild creatures of Wicken Fen, however, accepted Sham and Agba and 
Grimalkin. Butterflies grazed Sham's nose, leaving the powder from their 
wings as a token of trust. And Agba made a friend of a hooded crow. One 
minute the crow was an earthy creature perched on his shoulder. The next he 
was an arrow piercing the sky. 



Wicken Fen was not always drear. There were fair days when, just at 
sunset, Agba and Grimalkin would ride Sham along a grassy causeway to a 
watering place. It was more like flying than riding, for Sham no longer wore 
shoes, and the sound of his hooves was muted by the grass. They seemed 
one creature, these three, dying into the sunset. Then they drank with the 
wild things, the deer and the mallards and the gull. 



One day when Agba was repairing the thatched roof of his hovel, he 
looked off into the distance and noticed a cloud of dust rising. It was not just 
a puff. It was a long, extended cloud, as if made by many horses. 



He slid down the roof, glancing around quickly for Sham. There, only a 
few rods away, he was cavorting and licking his heels like a colt. The boy 
ran to him and led him inside the hovel, closing the door securely. As he 
stepped out again, he al- most stumbled over Grimalkin. Quickly Agba sent 
the cat inside too. Then he stood before the door, barricading it with his 
arms. He felt no fear for himself, but a nameless fear for Sham clutched at 
his heart. 



He squinted his eyes against the sun. Now he could make out a van drawn 
by a pair of horses and attended by a whole cavalcade of outriders. They 
were coming toward him. 




He could see the van clearly now. It was shiny red. The very same van in 
which Roxana had arrived at Gog Magog! And perched on the driver's box 
was Titus Twickerham! 



Mister Twickerham waved his hat in the air. Then he drew up with a 
flourish. The horsemen leaped to their feet. "Ho th-th-there, 1-1-lad," the 
groom stammered excitedly, as he strode toward Agba. "We have c-c-come 
for ye and the horse." Suddenly he realized that Agba was alone. His face 
went white. "The horse," he asked, "he has not d-d-d -" 



Sham let out a shrill whinny just then. The color came back to Mister 
Twickerham's face. "1-1-lad," he spoke in sugared tones, "ye remember the 
m-m-mare they call R-R-Roxana?" 



Agba nodded, his heart beating fast. 



"W-w-well, my boy, one morning 'long about a year ago, I c-come to look 
at her, and b-b-bless my soul if she ain't hiding a little horse-colt by her 
side." Mister Twickerham came a step closer. "And," he smiled, showing 
the gaping space in his teeth, "that little c-c-colt was the spit image d yer 
horse!" 



Agba looked to the other horsemen, as if he could not believe the groom's 
words. 

”’E speaks the truth," laughed one. "Don’t’e, lads?" 

"Aye! That he does!" 

Agba’s heart warmed. If only he could see Sham's colt! 




'"Course, the Earl— he hated the sight of the colt," the groom went on, "so 
he named him Lath, because he was that skinny. And he says to me, 
'Twickerham, just let that one grow. Don't ye bother to train him.' " 



The coach horses began pawing the grass. Mister Twickerham ordered his 
assistants to take off their headstalls so they could graze. 



"And now, Agba," smiled the groom, "hark to this: Lath is r-rising two; 
and yesterday when the other two-year-olds was bein’ timed around the ring, 
Lath was watching from the p-paddock. Then what do ye calculate 
happened?" 



Agba’s eyes asked the question. 



"Well, that Lath, he j-j-jumps the fence and starts racing around the ring on 
his own, and he catches up with the horses ahead o’ him and he overtakes 
em, and he travels like a b-b-bullet until he's ahead of em all ! And some of 
the two-year-olds was m-m-months older than Lath, and couldn't none o em 
catch him. " 



Agba could scarcely contain his excitement. He had but one question in his 
mind, and the groom answered it as if it had been spoken. 



"Aye, boy. By some chance his Lordship sees the whole p-p-performance, 
and his eyes p-p-pop so far out o' his head I coulda hooked 'em with my 
bootjack. ’T-T-T-Twickerham.' he says slow-like, trying to hide his feelings, 
'Twickerham,' he says, 'I was wrong. M-m-maybe Agba's little Arabian 
horse is the one to sire a new and noble b-b-breed of horses. Letch him 
home, Twickerham! Home!' " 



Titus Twickerham's face stretched in a grin. "So here we are, 1-1-lad, 
waiting to take yer stallion home in t-t-triumph. And for ye, there’s a snowy 
white mantle and turban what the Duchess sent along. It c-c-come all the 
way from Morocco." 




A few minutes later Sham, wearing a blanket for the first time in two 
years, was loaded into the shiny red van while Grimalkin sat perched on his 
back, a satisfied grin on his face. Agba stood at the back of the van, looking 
out between the well- padded stakes. He heard the crack of the whip. He felt 
the floor quiver beneath his feet. He saw the splendid outriders in their red 
jackets move into position. He stooped down and pressed his hand against 
Sham's white spot. 



At last Sham was being honored according to his merits ! At last things 
were as they ought to be ! On to Gog Magog ! 



GOD’S DOWNS 

THE EARL OF GOWLPHIN HIMSELF was waiting to welcome Sham 
back to Gog Magog, and he led the way, not to Sham's old stall, but to 
Hobgoblin's! Hobgoblin's name was no longer above the door. There were 
many letters there now. Agba studied them out. 



T-H-E G-O-D-O-L-P-H-I-N A-R-A-B-I-A-N they spelled. Why, the Earl 
had given Sham his own name ! A royal name ! Agba wanted to wring the 
Earl's hand, but a horseboy could not take such liberties. And just as his 
mind was casting wildly about for a way to thank him, the Earl himself put 
out his hand. 



Agba placed his palm with all its horny little calluses within the cushioned 
white one of the Earl. But it was the Earl’s fingers that tightened in a clasp so 
arm it made the boy blink. They stood so for a long moment. Then the Earl 
cleared his throat. "Godolphin means God’s Downs," he said, swallowing 
strangely. "And here, on God’s Downs, your Arabian will live out his days. 
Come, Agba, persuade him to enter his new quarters." 



Sham looked little and comical in Hobgoblin's big stall, but he accepted it 
as if it were his right. He rubbed his tail against the thickly padded walls and 
sidled along them as if he found the softness exactly to his taste. 



And wonder of wonders, he saw the Lady Roxana again! They came at 
each other with such joyous greetings that the sound of their reunion must 
have carried to Wicken Fen. Roxana did not seem to notice that Sham's coat 
was shaggy and coarsened. And Sham seemed unaware that Roxana was no 
longer the delicate little filly he had known. She was a brood mare now, and 
her bones were well furnished. 



"Not since the day they met have I heard a whinny so jubilant," the Earl 
remarked to Agba. 



Life now settled down to a pleasant pace. Sham had his own private 
paddock, and from it he could view everything that went on about him. 
Twice in the year that followed he saw his son, Lath, leave Gog Magog for 
the great races at Newmarket. He had no idea that Lath was the pride and 
toast of Newmarket, but each time he welcomed the young horse home with 
a deep-throated neigh. 



When Roxana presented Sham with Cade, a second son, Sham sniffed 
noses with him and nibbled along the little fellow's high crest. It seemed 
almost as if he were pleased and proud at having sired him! Grimalkin 
sniffed him, too; then wrinkled his nose as if he much preferred his own 
stable mate. Besides, his bones were growing old and he liked the comfort of 
the Godolphin Arabian's bed. 



Sham's third son was born a year after Cade. They named him Regulus, 
and he, like Lath and Cade, had the same high crest and the finely drawn 
legs of his sire. 



One day when Regulus was two years old, the Earl of Godolphin 
summoned Agba to his house. It was the first time in all these years that 
Agba had ever been inside the stately brick mansion. He crossed the 
threshold in awe. A servant showed him to the library where, in spite of the 
pleasant day, the Earl was seated before a crackling fire. 




"Sit down, gentle friend," the Earl said, indicating a leather hassock 
opposite him. 



Agba was not accustomed to sitting anywhere but on the ground. Timidly 
he circled the hassock, like a dog settling down for a nap. Then he bent 
forward and seated himself gingerly. When he realized that he was not going 
to topple off, he crossed his legs beneath him and waited for the Earl to 
speak. 



The Earl's face looked pinched and tired. Ele seemed preoccupied, as if he 
had forgotten Agba's presence. Absently he reached for a pair of tongs, 
plucked a glowing coal from the fire and lighted his pipe with a hand that 
was not steady. 



Agba turned his eyes away. He tried to observe the room, so that he might 
take away a picture memory of it. But suddenly, wherever he looked the 
symbols of the wheat ear and the white spot dashed before his eyes. He 
thought he saw them on the backs of the books that lined the walls, in the 
wisps of smoke the Earl blew, in the dancing flames. The signs of success 
and of failure! He had almost forgotten them. Now they seemed everywhere 
at once. Agba longed to run out of the house to see if Sham was in trouble, 
but the quiet and the smoke were entwining themselves about his throat, 
choking him. And just when he seemed unable to take another breath, the 
Earl spoke. 



"King Charles," he began, "used to say of my father that he was never in 
the way, never out of the way. That," he said with a direct gaze, "is my 
feeling for you." 



Agba's eyes were fixed on the Earl's face. 



"It is right that you should know what I am about to say, Agba, for to your 
stallion may go the honor of improving the English race horse. Already the 
swiftness and the vitality of your golden Arabian are showing up in his colts. 




Had it not been for you, Agba, I might have discarded the purest blood of the 
Orient." 



Agba knew that in spite of these momentous words something was wrong. 
He waited tensely. 



"The news that I am a poor man," the Earl said at last, "may come as a 
shock to you. I have naught in this world but a title." 



Agba's mouth fell open. His glance darted to the polished parquetry door, 
to the shining silver sconces with branching lights, to the gardener 
trimming the hedge outside the window. 



"Aye," the Earl nodded. "Vast estates require vast reservoirs of money. I 
am in low circumstances, and my debts grow clamorous. Pastures must 
needs be limed and rolled and harrowed, horses shed, farriers paid. Agba," 
he paused, then went on falteringly, "on the very eve when we are improving 
the strain of the English horse, I may have to let our stables and pastures for 
farming purposes. 



The words fell with a thud. The gold clock on the mantel tolled the hour. A 
log split open, sent up a shower of sparks, then fell among the ashes. 



For seconds the Earl stared into the fire. Then a dicker of hope lighted his 
eyes. "There is a three- day race meeting at Newmarket this spring" he said, 
"with the Queen's Plate as the prize. Should Lath or Cade or Regulus win, 
there would be no need to let the property. The Queen's Plate is a purse of 
one thousand guineas ! " 



The blood quickened in Agba's veins. He almost fell off the hassock in his 
excitement. He waited for the Earl's next words. They came in a rush. 



"It is not often," he said, "that a stallion has three great sons in one race 
meet. Since the Godolphin Arabian is too old to compete, I am of the 




opinion that he should be present at Newmarket to watch the performance of 
Lath and Cade and Regulus. What think you of this?" 



The Earl searched Agba's face, and when he read the hope and pride there, 
he threw back his head and laughed deeply. 



THE QUEEN S PLATE 



NEWMARKET! The word set Agba on fire. Since first he had come to 
England he had heard horseshoers, jockeys, water boys, exercise men, 
saddlers, cap makers, whip makers, the Earl, and even the Duchess say the 
word as if it held ice and dame in its syllables. 



Now that he knew all three of Sham's sons were to run on this famous 
course, Agba felt such excitement that he worked with the speed of a 
whirlwind. The days sped by in eager preparation for the great event. Finally 
came the day to start. 



To Agba, on that early morning of April, the road to Newmarket seemed 
never-ending. He was in a fever of expectancy. He wanted to break ranks, as 
Sham was urging him to do. He wanted to plunge ahead of Titus 
Twickerham on Galompus, the lead horse. But he must keep the pace set. 



Behind him he could hear the light hoofbeats of Sham's three sons and the 
heavy cloppety-clop of the pack horses. 



Perhaps if he took his eyes from the striped body jacket of Titus 
Twickerham and the stout romp of Galompus, the pace would not seem so 
slow! He tried to study the farms they passed, the tidy cottages with old men 
on the doorsteps and young men in the fields. He tried to count the long- 
necked geese in the four-storied carts they passed. He peered down the 
byways. He saw a shepherd and his dog driving a dock of sheep toward 
market. He even tried to imagine what the sheep were thinking of the 
passing horses. 



But it was no use. New-mar-ket! New-mar-ket! The word kept dangling 
before him like a blade in the sun. New-mar-ket! New-mar-ket! He heard it 
in the rhythm of the hoofbeats, in the creak of cart- wheels, in the song of 
the cuckoo. New-mar-ket! 



They climbed a gentle rise. They passed through a toll gate. And then, 
suddenly, Newmarket Heath lay spread out before them. Agba gasped in 
dismay. It was not that Newmarket was less beautiful than he had expected. 
It was not that at all. He looked at the vast greenness of it. He smelled the 
fragrance of the turf. And instead of one racecourse, there were many. But 
what made a lump line in Agba's throat was that everywhere, in all 
directions, exercise boys were galloping their horses. He shut his eyes, but 
he only saw them more clearly. The satin bodies of horses. Horses flying. 
Horses stretched out in the wind. 



His mind raced back to what the Earl had told him only last evening. "You 
may walk your horse over the dips and rises," he had said kindly. "But do 
not gallop him. He is far more valuable than a running horse, Agba. He is 
the hope of Gog Magog." 



And Mister Twickerham had added his own word of caution. "If I c-cc- 
catches ye galloping him, I'll trounce ye w-w-w- within an inch of yer lifer" 



At the time, Agba had readily agreed. It would be enough happiness, he 
had thought, to see Lath and Cade and Regulus run. Now he was not so sure. 
How he wanted Sham to run! To prove that he was King of the wind! 



The Earl's horses were always allowed several days in Newmarket to 
limber up before the day of the meeting. For Agba and Sham these days 
dragged. They were in Newmarket, but not of it. The Earl seemed too busy 
to pay any attention to them. His whole concern was in Lath, Cade, Regulus. 
He had not even told Agba where Sham was to be stationed when he 
watched his sons run. 




Agba wished he and Sham had never come to Newmarket! He listened to 
the talk going on about him, sifting out the words that mattered. 



"Regulus will run one heat over the Round Course on Thursday. 



"Cade will run one heat over the Beacon Course on Friday. 



"On Saturday, Lath will run one heat over the Caesare witch Course for the 
honor and the glory of the Queen's Plate!" 



After that, thought Agba, it will be over and done with. He would be glad 
to go back to Gog Magog. Then he and Sham could lose themselves for 
hours at a time in the upland pasture. 



Monday, Tuesday passed. Wednesday came. Ah day the Earl and Mister 
Twickerham passed by Sham's tent as if they were unaware of his being 
there. Thursday came. Agba tried to busy himself shaking up the straw of 
Sham's bed, cleaning out his hooves, anointing his body with sheep's-foot 
oil. By midmorning he was doing the same tasks over and over, like a dog 
in a treadmill cage. His neck ached from looking up expectantly at every 
footfall. Perhaps the Earl would ask Sham to be the lead horse, to guide the 
nervous young fillies and colts to the starting post. There was still time. He 
might come. 



The sun climbed higher and higher. The excitement all about them 
mounted. But Agba and Sham were isolated. No one came near them. They 
seemed more alone than when they were in the fen country. 



Noon came. Regulus was led by Sham's stall on his way to the Round 
Course. Agba heard the saddling bell. He heard the winding of the trumpet. 
He heard the cry as if from a thousand throats, "They're away!" Then the 
quickening music of hoofbeats. A few brief seconds, and they began fading, 
growing fainter and fainter until they were gone. 




Agba was glad, of course, when he heard the cries of "Regulus! Regulus!" 
and knew that Sham's youngest son bad won the two-year-old race. All the 
rest of the day he told himself how very glad he was. But there was a kind of 
hollowness in his gladness. Sham was unnoticed. Forgotten. 



When Cade won the three-year-old race on the second day, Agba went 
right on sewing a strap that Sham had tom from his horse cloth. This was not 
news. He had known it all along. Did not Cede, like Regulus, have Sham's 
blood flowing in his veins? Was he not sired by the King of the Wind? Did 
be not have the white spot on his heel? With each question Agba’s needle 
whipped in and out of the blanket, faster, faster. 



A shadow suddenly fell across his work. He looked up into the twinkling 
gray eyes of the Earl of Godolphin. 



"Agba!" cried the Earl with a boyish grin. "A great honor is come! The 
King and Queen of England will attend the final race meet tomorrow. And 
the Keeper of the Course has invited the Godolphin Arabian to stand at the 
finish post. Think on it, Agba! The King and Queen on one side. And 
directly opposite, the Godolphin Arabian!" 



Agba was on his feet in an instant. 



"And you, gentle Agba, will be up!" Then the Earl chuckled. "Though 
Twickerham insists upon two lead grooms to hold him. He does not trust 
Sham when the horses are off." 



A group of the Earl's friends were coming to- ward him. The Earl lowered 
his voice and spoke quickly. "The amulets," he whispered, "do you still wear 
them about your neck?" 



Agba took the silken bag from his neck and handed it to the Earl. 




The Earl winked. "Hmm," he smiled. "If the amulets can prevent and cure 
the bite of a scorpion, they can give Lath wings. 



He turned to go, then came back. "I do not need to tell you to curry the 
Godolphin Arabian," he smiled with his eyes. "Already his coat is the color 
of honey when held in ajar against the sunlight." 



News of the King's and Queen's coming flew over the countryside. From 
Suffolk and Norfolk, from Hertford and Bedford, from nearly all the shires 
in England, the people came ! Peers and lords and ladies in velvets and gold 
lace, yeomen in sturdy homespun, professors from Cambridge, gamekeepers 
with partridges in their pockets, moneylenders and Quakers, maltmen and 
saddlers and whip makers and aldermen and squires and maids and 
housewives. They came on horseback. They came in coaches. They came 
afoot. 



They spread themselves along Devil’s Dyke where, long years ago, the 
Britons had dug a ditch to stem invasions. Now the dyke was over grown 
with the finest turf in the kingdom. The people stood on it, sat on it, waiting 
for the sun to mark the middle of the day. 



Within Sham's tent the very air seemed to crackle with excitement. The 
Earl of Godolphin himself was laying a purple saddlecloth on Sham's back, 
and fastening gold ornaments on his bridle and breastplate. Two grooms 
stood ready with silken lead ropes. They were dressed in the Earl's stable 
colors — scarlet silk body jackets and long scarlet stockings. What a contrast 
Agba made! His feet and legs were bare, and he wore his plain mantle. But 
he sat his horse with such pride that he might have worn ermine. 



Now Sham was parading to the finish port Agba kept his eyes forward. Yet 
he was aware of an undertone as of bees buzzing. The deep tones of men's 
voices. The grace notes of women. He caught wisps of talk. 



I prefers 'em lustier, stouter-limbed. 




Little as a cricket, hain't he?’ 



"He’s the gold of the sun." 

"Egad! Note the crest on him!" 

"Lookit the artist, there, sketching a likeness o im." 

"That young man astride him— I knew him when he was just a little mite. 
My poor boy! I used to bake sugar tarts for him." 



Agba turned his head very slightly, and from the sea of faces he picked out 
the plump, red-cheeked face and the shining eyes of Mistress Cockbum. A 
look of affectionate greeting flew between them. 



Now there was a crash of drums and a flourish of trumpets as the Light 
Dragoons on matched horses swept into the race grounds. They were 
clearing a path for the royal party. The crowds fell back like thistles before 
the wind. Then shouts went up on all sides: "Long live the King! Long live 
the King!" 



The coaches wheeled to a stop. Escorts rushed forward, followed by the 
Mayor of Newmarket and all the aldermen and squires. They bowed low 
before His Royal Majesty, George II, King of Great Britain and Ireland. The 
King was little in stature, but he strutted to the stand, his purple body coat 
flaring out behind him like the tail of a peacock. 



Queen Caroline, tall as a pikestaff, swept along behind him. Her gown was 
corded and hooped with pearls, and she wore ropes of pearls about her neck, 
and her bonnet was bedecked with purple plumes. 




Mincing along behind her came the princesses, Amelia and Caroline and 
Mary and Louisa, miniatures of their splendid mother. They were followed 
by lords and ladies in great number. 



The cheering had scarcely died away when the entries for the race were led 
past the royal stand. Each of the horses was hooded and blanketed in the 
vivid colors of his own stable— red, yellow, purple, gray, orange. 



Agba was dazzled by the sight. It was as if some sky giant had opened a 
jewel bag and tossed rubies, amethysts, sapphires, and moonstones onto the 
grass. 



Quickly he spotted the scarlet sheet that enveloped Lath, though he could 
see only two pricked ears and the whisk of his tail. 



Over in the royal stand the heads of the lords and ladies were bobbing this 
way and that, adjusting their field glasses. They seemed more interested in 
making out the crests on the blankets than in the quality of the legs and feet 
beneath them. 



Agba's eyes gathered in the whole spectacle. He was glad that he had 
come. He had wanted so terribly to see Sham run. But now he knew that it 
was better this way. How could Sham compete with the youngsters of the 
turf? Especially when one of them was his own son? 



Sham was alerted, waiting for a signal from Agba. Yet he stood still, 
obedient to Agba's wishes. It was better so. Defeat would have broken his 
heart. Now he was forever unbeaten. In his own mind and in Agba's he was 
still the wind beneath the sun. Neither horse nor gazelle could outrun him. 



The saddle bell ended Agba's thoughts. His eyes flew to the starter, who 
was unfurling his red flag, sending his assistant a dozen yards down the 
track. He watched the trumpeter blowing on his trumpet, his face rounder 
than a goat sack. 




Now the horses were parading to the starting post. They were drawing up 
in a line. Nervous as grasshoppers. Dancing. Side-stepping. Rearing. 
Starting and being led back. Starting again. And again. And again. 



The moment came. The starter dropped his red Bag. "They're away!" 



Not for one second did Agba need to hunt for Lath in that flying stream of 
horse flesh. He did not even look for the scarlet and white stripes of the 
jockey's body coat. His eyes were fixed on the littlest horse, the littlest horse 
that got away to a bad start! 



The field was far out in front. The big horses were whipping down the 
steep slope to Devil's Dyke, skimming along the running gap, leaping up the 
opposite bank and across a long hat stretch. They were beginning to bunch, 
making narrow gaps. Lath was coming up from behind. He began filling in 
the gaps. He went through them. He was a blob of water color, trickling 
along the green turf between the other colors. 



For a brief second the horses were hidden by a clump of hawthorn trees. 
Agba's knees tightened. He felt Sham quiver beneath him, saw white decks 
of sweat come out on his neck. It was well the grooms were there to hold 
them both ! 



The horses were coming around the trees now. The golden blob was still 
flowing between the other colors. It was flowing beyond them, flowing free! 



In full stride, Lath was galloping down the dip and up the rise to the 
ending post. He was dying past it, leaving the "lusty" horses behind. 



"The little horse wins!" 



Lath, an easy winner! 




Lath, son of Godolphin Arabian, wins ! 



People of ah ages and all ranks clapped their hands and cheered in wild 
notes of triumph. 



Agba never knew how he and Sham reached the royal stand. But suddenly, 
there they were. And the Earl of Godolphin was there too. 



"I am pleased to give," Queen Caroline was saying in her sincere, 
straightforward manner, "I am pleased to give and bestow upon the Earl of 
Godolphin the Queen's Plate." 



Everyone could see it was not a plate that she held in her hands at all. It 
was a purse. But only Agba and the Earl knew how much that purse would 
mean to the future of the horse in England. The Earl looked right between 
the plumes in the Queen's bonnet and found Agba's eyes for an instant. Then 
he fell to his knees and kissed the Queen's hand. 



A hush fell over the heath. The Queen's words pinged sharp and clear, like 
the pearls that suddenly broke from her necklace and fell upon the door of 
the stand. No one stooped to recover them, for the Queen was speaking. 



"And what," she asked, as she fixed one of her own purple plumes in 
Sham's headstall, "what is the pedigree of this proud sire of three winning 
horses?" 



Agba leaned forward in his saddle. 



There was a pause while the fail found the right words. "Your Majesty," he 
spoke slowly, thought fully, "his pedigree has been... has been lost. But 
perhaps it was so intended. His pedigree is written in his sons." 




How the country people cheered ! An unknown stallion wearing the royal 
purple! It was a fairy tale come true. 



The princesses clapped their hands too. Even the King seemed pleased. He 
puffed out his chest and nodded to the Queen that the answer was good. 



Agba swallowed. He felt a tear begin to trickle down his cheek. Quickly, 
before anyone noticed, he raised his hand to brush it away. His hand 
stopped. Why, he was growing a beard! He was a man! Suddenly his mind 
flew back to Morocco. My name is Agba. Ba means "father." I will be a 
father to you, Sham, and when I am grown I will ride you before the 
multitudes. And they will bow before you, and you will be Ring of the 
Wind. I promise it. 



He had kept his word! 



For the first time in his life, he was glad he could not talk. Words would 
have spoiled everything. They were shells that cracked and blew away in the 
wind. He and Sham were alike. That was why they understood each other so 
deeply. 



The Godolphin Arabian stood very still, his regal head lifted. An east wind 
was rising. He stretched out his nostrils to gather in the scent. It was laden 
with the fragrance of wind flowers. Of what was he thinking? Was he 
rerunning the race of Lath? Was he rejoicing in the royal purple? Was he 
drawing a wood cart in the streets of Paris? Or just winging across the grassy 
downs in the shafts of the sun? 



FATHER OF THE TURF 



THE GODOLPHIN ARABIAN lived to a plentiful age. And when he 
died, at the age of twenty- nine, his body was buried at Gog Magog in a 
passage leading to his stable. Over his grave a tablet of solid granite was 
laid. There was no inscription on it. None at all. For the Earl of Godolphin 
did not need words carved on stone to remind him of the fire and spirit of the 



golden stallion from Morocco. He had only to look out upon his own 
meadows to see the living image of Sham in his colts and grand- colts. There 
were light bays and dark bays and chestnuts. But regardless of color, they all 
wore the high crest of the Godolphin Arabian. 



"These are my knights of the wonderful crest," the Earl of Godolphin 
would say when visitors came to Gog Magog. "The blood of the Godolphin 
Arabian courses in their veins. You can trace it in the height of their crest. 
And you can trace it, too, in the underlying gold of their coats." 



At Newmarket, however, men were not concerned with color or crest. 
What they were interested in was speed and stamina. And it was exactly 
these qualities that the descendants of the Godolphin Arabian inherited. 



The names of Godolphin's offspring were on every tongue: Lath, Cade, 
Regulus, Babraham, Blank, Buffcoaf Match'em, Molly Longlegs, Whistle- 
jacket, Weasel, Old England, Silverlocks, Dormouse. 



Eclipse, Sham's great-grandson, was the pride of the kingdom. In his 
whole career he never ran except to win. He won eleven plates at 
Newmarket. "Eclipse first; the rest nowhere!" roared the crowds when 
Eclipse came sailing past the winning post. 



It is a curious fact that today, two centuries later, the name of the 
Godolphin Arabian is found in the pedigree of almost every superior 
Thoroughbred. To him goes the title: Father of the Turf. 



Would not the carter of Paris and the King's cook and the mistress of the 
Red Lion have laughed in scorn at the idea of Sham's attaining such fame? 
How they would have held their sides had anyone predicted that Man o' 
War, the greatest racer of his time, would owe his vitality to the fiery little 
horse from Morocco ! 



The Earl of Godolphin, however, would not have been surprised in the 
least. Perhaps he felt that some such honor would come to his horse. For 




when the Earl grew to be an old, old man he liked to take his visitors to 
Sham's grave. And when they asked why the tablet bore no marking, he 
would say, "I shall trouble you with a very short answer. It needs none. You 
see," he would smile, a faraway look in his eye, "the golden bay was tended 
all his life by a boy who could not speak. He left for Morocco the night that 
his horse died. Without any words at all he made me understand that his 
mission in life was fulfilled. 



"So I have kept the tablet clean. It is for you and for me to write here our 
thoughts and tributes to the King of the Wind and the slim brown horseboy 
who loved him." 



After the Earl's death, the Godolphin Arabian's name and the year of his 
death were inscribed on the tombstone. Time, however, is erasing the letters, 
as if in respect to the Earl's wishes. 



The John Newbery Medal has been awarded annually under the supervision 
of the American Library Association, to books that are considered the most 
distinguished contributions to literature for children. 



end 



