
National Velvet


ENID BAGNOLD

Drawings by 
LAURIAN JONES 



WILLIAM HEINEMANN LTD. 
London and Toronto 




FIRST PUBLISHED 1935 


PRINTED in GREAT BRITAIN 
AT THE WINDMILL PRESS, KINGSWOOD, SURREY 






Chapter I 


Unearthly humps of land curved into the darkening 
sky like the backs of browsing pigs, like the rumps of 
elephants. At night when the stars rose over them they 
looked like a starlit herd of divine pigs. The villagers 
called them Hullocks. 

The valleys were full of soft and windblown vegetation. 
The sea rolled at the foot of all as though God had 
brought his herd down to water. 

The Hullocks were blackening as Velvet cantered down 
the chalk road to the village. She ran on her own slender 
legs, making horse-noises and chirrups and occasionally 
striking her thigh with a switch, holding at the same time 
something very small before her as she ran. The light on 
the chalk road was the last thing to gleam and die. 
The flints slipped and flashed under her feet. Her cotton 
dress and her cottony hair blew out, and her lips were 
parted for breath in a sweet metallic smile. She had the 
look of a sapling-Dante as she ran through the darkness 
downhill. 

At the entrance to the village the sea was pounding up 
the sewer with a spring gale behind it. She passed to the 
third cottage, stopped at the door, opened it, let a gush of 
light on to the pavement, closed it and carried her tender 
object inside. 

Edwina, Malvolia, and Meredith sat in their father’s 
Mr. Brown’s sitting-room just before supper time. It 
was dark outside and hot inside, and outside in the 
darkness the Hullocks went up in great hoops above the 


village. There was an oil stove in the comer of the 
sitting-room and lesson books on the table. The ceiling 
was low and sagged. An Albert lamp with a green glass 
shade lit the table. There was no electric light. Donald, 
the boy of four, was asleep upstairs. 

Edwina, Malvolia and Meredith were all exactly alike, 
like golden greyhounds. Their golden hair was sleek, 
their fine faces like antelopes, their shoulders still and 
steady like Zulu women carrying water, and their bodies 
beneath the shoulders rippled when they moved. They 
were seventeen, sixteen, and fifteen. Velvet was fourteen. 
Velvet had short pale hair, large, protruding teeth, a 
sweet smile and a mouthful of metal. 

Mr. Brown was swilling down the slaughter house, as 
Mi Taylor was away for the day. The sound of the hose 
swished at the wooden partition which separated the 
slaughter house from the sitting-room. 

“He went beautifully!” said Velvet, and laying down a 
tiny paper horse on the table she wrenched at the gold 
band that bound her teeth back and laid it beside the 
horse. 

“Father'll be in in a minute,” said Edwina wamingly. 

“It's going in again directly I hear a sound,” said 
Velvet and sitting down she swept the plate into her 
lap. 

“Look at him,” she said lovingly, taking up the paper 
horse. “I must unsaddle him and rub him down.” The 
heads were bent on the lesson books again and Velvet 
took a tiny bridle of cotton threads from the horse. 
Then going to a shell-box on the sideboard she brought 
it to the table. 

“It's just supper,” said Mally. “You'll have to clear.” 

Velvet opened the box and took out a stable rubber 

two inches square, a portion of her handkerchief, 
hemmed round. Laying the little horse flat on the table 
she rubbed him with delicacy in circular motions, after 
having taken a paper saddle from his back. 

The horse was a racer cut from the Bystander. He 
stood three inches high and had a raking neck and a 
keen, veined face. By dint of much rubbing the paper 
had given off a kind of coat, and now as Velvet rubbed 
there came a suede-like sheen on the horse’s paper body. 
He was dark, most carefully cut out, and pasted upon 
cardboard. The bridle was made by the fingers of a fairy, 
noseband, chin-strap and all, in black cotton. 

“He has a high action,” said Velvet. “A lovely show 
canter, but a difficult trot. I didn’t jump him to-day as he 
needs to settle down.” 

In the shell-box other horses lay. 

“There’s a marvellous picture of mares on the back of 
The Times to-day, but you can’t cut a single one clear. 
They’re all mixed up with the foals.” 

“I saw it,” said Velvet. “I called at the Post Office. 
But it was no good.” 

“I called in too,” said Mally. “They said in the Post 
Office that one of us looking at The Times was enough. 
We’d better take turns.” 

“Yes,” said Velvet. “You can’t think how lovely it 
was galloping up there. It was nearly dark. He never 
put a foot wrong. Somehow you can trust a horse like 
that.” 

“IPs blood that counts,” said Mally darkly. 

“I haven’t got the racing saddle cut right,” went on 
Velvet. “I wish I could find a picture of one. I ride 
short when I ride this horse and with this saddle the 
knees come right off on to his shoulder.” 

“You need kneeflaps,” said Edwina. 

“I suppose there’s not time” said Velvet, “to take the 
chestnut down for a stand in the pond? His hocks are 
still puffy.” 

“It’s not you to lay to-night,” said Mally. “You’ve got 
ten minutes. Don’t let father see. . . . Mind your plate! 
It’s fallen!” 

Velvet dived under the table, picked it up, and examined 
it anxiously. Opening her mouth she worked it painfully 
in with both hands. 

“S’bent a bit,” she gasped. “It’s a hell plate . . 

“It’s no good. Don’t go on! Get on down to the 
pond.” 

Velvet packed the racer in the shell-box and carefully 
abstracted a smaller horse, a coloured picture of a polo 
pony cut from The Tatler. Putting the box away she 
slipped through the door with the chestnut and was 
gone. 

A door at the other end of the sitting-room opened 
and Mrs. Brown came in. She stood and looked at the 
daughters for a moment — an enormous woman who had 
once swum the Channel. Now she had become muscle- 
bound. 

Towering over the Albert lamp she threw her shadow 
across the books and up the wall. 

She said: “Lay supper.” And went out. 

“Meredith,” said Edwina mechanically without look- 
ing up. Meredith got up and began to collect the books. 
When all the books were gone the two sisters sat tilting 
their chairs back so that Meredith could get the white 
doth over the edge of the table past their knees. When 
this was done all their chairs came forward again. 
Kneeling by the Victorian sideboard Meredith pulled out 

plates, bread-knife, platter, sugar, knives and forks and 
salts and peppers. 

The street door opened and Velvet stood on the mat. 
She had her shoes in her hand and her bare ankles were 
green with slime. Mrs. Brown who had come in glanced 
at her and took a duster from the sideboard. “Wipe 
them up,” she said and threw the duster on to the mat. 
Velvet mopped her slimy ankles, whispering to Mally, 
pointing with her finger towards the door — “Stars like 
Chris tmas trees. Terrible stuff in the pond. Spawn. I 
stood five minutes.” 

“We ought to get some,” said Mally. ‘Til get a bottle 
after supper.” 

“Any spawn” said Mrs. Brown without looking up, 
“goes on a tin tray.” 

“Yes, mother.” 

“Larder,” said Mrs. Brown. 

Velvet put her shoes in the corner and the horse in the 
shell-box and disappeared. The others sat in silence till 
she came back with the tray. 

Cold ham, jam, butter were placed on the table, and a 
dish of radishes. 

Mr. Brown came in by the slaughter-house door, gum- 
boots drawn to his thighs, his sleeves rolled up, his 
hands wet from the hose. He passed through the room 
on his way to wash for supper. Velvet and the three 
golden greyhounds sat on in brooding silence. A smell of 
liver and bacon stole in from the kitchen. 

The two doors, that on the street and that on the 
kitchen, opened suddenly together. Out of the black hole 
of the street came Mi Taylor, brushed up for supper. 
Mrs. Brown came in from the kitchen carrying the liver 
and bacon. 

The room filled with smells. Mr. Brown came in 
putting on his coat. Everyone sat down, Mr last of all. 
pulling up his chair gingerly. 

“Well . . .” said Mr. Brown, and helped the liver 
round. 

Meredith went out and fetched in the jugs of coffee and 
milk. 

“Bin over to Worthing?” said Mr. Brown. 

“I have,” said Mi. 

“Got that freezing-machine catalogue for me?” 

“Shops shut again.” 

“Good God!” said Mr. Brown exasperated, “Don't 
you ever learn the shut-shop day in Worthing? Whadyer 
do then?” 

“Had three teeth out. Dentist was all there was 
open.” 

“Oh Mi, where?” said Velvet. 

Mi opened his jaw and pointed to a bloody wound. 

“Oughter eat pap for it,” said Mr. Brown. “It's 
pulpy.” 

“S'got to learn to harden,” said Mi. 

“Donald asleep?” said Mally. 

“This hour gone,” said Mrs. Brown. 

They ate, sleek girls' heads bent under the lamp, Mr. 
Brown and Mrs. Brown square and full and steady. Mi 
silent and dexterous with his red hair boiling up in curls 
on his skull. 

Jacob went grinning round the table, from sister to 
sister. 

“Nobody feeds him,” ordered Mi under his breath. 

His red hair boiled up on his skull fiercer than ever at 
Jacob's presumption. 

The yard spaniels remained in the street on the door- 

step through meals. They lay and leant against the front 
door, grouped on the step, so that the door creaked and 
groaned under their pressed bodies. When the door was 
opened from the inside they fell in. When this happened 
Mi sent them out again with a roar. 

Jacob had been allowed in all his life. His fox terrier 
body, growing stout in middle age, still vibrated to 
a look. His lips curled and he grinned at the blink 
of a human eyelash. His tail ached with wagging, 
and even his hips waggled as he moved. But under cover 
of these virtues he was watchful for his benefit, watchful 
for human weakness, affected, a ready liar, disobedient, 
boastful, a sucker-up, and had a lifelong battle with Mi. 
Mi adored him and seldom said a kind word to him. 
Jacob adored Mi, and there was no one whom he would 
not sooner deceive. At meals Jacob wriggled and 
grinned from sister to sister, making a circle round Mi, 
whose leg was scooping for him. 

Just outside the slaughter-house was a black barking 
dog on the end of a string. This dog had a name but 
no character. It barked without ceasing day and night. 
Nobody heard it. The Browns slept and lived and ate 
beside its barking. The spaniels never opened their 
mouths. They pressed against doors and knee and 
furniture. They lived for love and never got it. They 
were herded indiscriminately together and none knew 
their characteristics but Mi. The sisters felt for them 
what they felt for the fowls in the fowlyard. Mi fed them. 

But Jacob’s weaknesses and affectations and dubious 
sincerities were thrust upon everyone’s notice. When 
Velvet came in at the front door, and pressing back the 
leaning spaniels, dosed it, Jacob would rise, wriggle his 
hips at her, bow and grin. 

“How exquisite, how condescending, how flattering!” 
said he, bowing lower and lower, with his front legs slid 
out on the floor and his back legs stiff. But if asked to 
go for a walk not a step would he come outside unless he 
had business of his own with the ashbin, or wanted to 
taunt the chained and raging dog with the spine of a 
herring dragged in the dust. 

The chained dog chiefly barked. But sometimes he 
stopped rending the unheeding air and lay silent. Then 
he would whirl out on his chain like a fury and fall flat, 
half choked. And Jacob would stand without flinching, 
banking on the strength of the chain, and think, “You 
poor one-thoughted fool . . 

The Browns loved Jacob as they loved each other, 
deeply, from the back of the soul, with intolerance in 
daily life. 

As the girls ate a private dream floated in Velvet’s 
mind. ... It was a little horse, slender and perfect, 
rising divinely at a jump, fore-feet tucked up neatly, 
intelligence and delight in its eager eye, and on its back, 
glued lightly and easily to the saddle . . . she. Velvet 
. . . Gymkhana Velvet. As she took the visionary jump 
her living hand stole to her mouth. She pulled out the 
torturing plate and hid it in her lap. Mi’s eyes were 
on her in a flash, he who never missed anything. 

“Be windy for the Fair Thursday,” said Mrs. Brown. 

“It’s coming in wild from the South West,” said Mr. 
Brown. 

“Always does when it comes in at all,” said Mrs. 
Brown. “Three-day gale.” 

All the trees in the dark village outside attested this. 
They were blown like fans set on one side. The rooks 
shuffled and slept in them, waving up and down among 


the breaking twigs. The village street was white with 
rook-droppings. 

‘Tut that in again. Velvet,” commanded Mrs. Brown. 

“She got it out again?” asked Mr. Brown looking up 
sharply. 

“It aches me an’ aches when I eat,” said Velvet. 

“Ache or no, argue or no, that plate cost me four 
pound ten and it’s solid gold an* it goes in,” said Mr. 
Brown. “Fm not going to have a child like a rabbit if I 
can help it. You girls have got your faces for your 
fortunes and none other. Fve told you often enough.” 

The three golden greyhounds sat up straighter than 
ever and Velvet fumbled with her teeth. 

“It’s got hooked up.” 

“Unhook it, then,” said Mr. Brown. He sat back, 
satisfied, commanding and comfortable, and pulled the 
radishes towards him. Then he passed the dish round. 

“Take a radish. Velvet.” 

“Couldn’t bite a radish /” 

“Go without then,” said Mr. Brown happily, and 
leant back to light his pipe. 

All the Browns tilted their chairs. Nobody ever told 
them it would hurt the carpet. They ate, ruminated, and 
tilted. Only Mrs. Brown sat solid and silent. She did not 
talk much, but managed the till down at the shop in the 
street. She knew all about courage and endurance, to 
the last ounce of strength, from the first swallow of 
overcome timidity. She valued and appraised each 
daughter, she knew what each daughter could do. She 
was glad too that her daughters were not boys because 
she could not understand the courage of men, but only 
the courage of women. Mr. Brown was with dignity the 
head of the family. But Mrs. Brown was the standard of 



IO “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

the family. When Velvet had fallen off the pier at the age 
of six her mother went in thirty feet after her, sixteen 
stone, royal-blue afternoon dress. A straight dive, like 
the dive of an ageing mammoth. The reporter from the 
West Worthing News came to make a story of it and said 
to Edwina, “Your mother swum the Channel, didn't 
she?" Edwina nodded towards her mother. “Better ask 
her “What's past's past, young man," said Mrs. 
Brown heavily and shut her mouth and her door. 

Mi Taylor's father had trained Mrs. Brown for her 
swim, trained her when she had been a great girl of 
nineteen, neckless, clumsy, and incredibly enduring. Mi 
himself had been a flyweight boxer, killed his man, be- 
cause the wretched creature was in status lymphaticus, got 
exonerated and yet somehow disqualified, tramped the 
country, held horses, cleaned stables and drifted nearer 
and nearer to the racing world, till he knew all about it 
except the feel of a horse's back. Arriving somehow in 
the ebb of Lewes races he had been taken on by Mr. 
Brown for the slaughter-house, for running errands, and 
lately even for negotiating for stock. 

Mrs. Brown stared at him when he came with a look of 
strange pleasure in her hooded eyes. Mi Taylor, the son 
of Father Taylor ! He knew all about her, Taylor did. 
The only one who ever did. He knew what she was 
made of. He’d had the last ounce out of her. He and the 
doctor at her five confinements, those men knew. 
Nobody else, ever. Mi was his son. Mi was welcome. 
He could stay. Henceforth he ate with the family and 
lodged in the extra loose-box. And Araminty Brown, 
embedded in fat, her keen, hooded eyes hardly lifting the 
rolls above them, cooked admirably, ran the accounts, 
watched the shop, looked after the till, spoke seldom. 



“national velvet” II 

interfered hardly ever, sighed sometimes (because it 
would have taken a war on her home soil, the birth of a 
colony, or a great cataclysm to have dug from her what 
she was bom for), moved about the house, brought up 
her four taut daughters under her heavy eye, and thought 
of death occasionally with a kind of sardonic shrug. 
Nobody could have said exactly whether she had a dull 
brain or no. Ed and Mally and Meredith behaved 
themselves at the wink of one of her heavy eyes. Velvet 
would have laid down her stringy life for her. 

“Yer ma” said Mi, “ ’sworth a bellyful. Pity she 
weighs what she does.” 

“Why?” said Mally. 

“Binds her up,” said Mi. And it was not constipation 
he was thinking of. 

“Mi,” said Mally to her mother, “thinks you ought to 
be riding in Lewes races.” 

Mrs. Brown made a noise in her nose. 

“What?” said Mally. 

“That’s all right,” said Mrs. Brown. 

“You can never tell what mother’s thinking,” said 
Mally to Velvet. 

“She doesn’t think where we do,” said Velvet. “She 
thinks at the back.” 

In the sitting-room at the close of supper Mrs. Brown 
stretched out an arm and turned the Albert lamp lower. 

“Box,” said Mr. Brown indicating the sideboard. 
Bdwina rose and brought him his small cigar. 

The shadows whirled. 

“Monday,” said Mrs. Brown. 

“Driving night,” said Velvet. 

“What I was thinking,” said Mrs. Brown. “Get on 
off!” 



iz “national velvet” 

“First?” said Velvet* 

“First,” said Mrs. Brown* 

Velvet hunched her shoulder-blades and sniffed. Was 
driving worth it? She never could make up her mind. 
Out of bed it didn’t seem so, but in bed it was worth 
while. 

“Hush!” she said suddenly and held up her hand. 
“Cough . . .” she said, and went to the slaughter- 
house door. 

“Gone to mb Miss Ada’s chest,” said Mi grinning. 

In the sitting-room the books for homework came out 
again. 

“Gotta see a boy,” murmured Mi as he went out 
into the street. 

Velvet lit the hurricane lamp standing in the corner of 
the empty slaughter-house and passed through to the 
shed where the old pony lived. 

Miss Ada was an old pink roan gone grey with age, her 
ears permanently back, a look of irritation about her 
creased nostrils, backbone sagging, horny growths on her 
legs. 

“Hullo,” said Velvet and opened the door. Miss Ada 
moved definitely round and turned her backside on 
Velvet. 

Velvet put her hand on the quarters and the skin 
twitched irritably. 

“You never do anything about being decent!” said 
Velvet* “Have you got a cough?” 

Miss Ada bent her head suddenly aqd rubbed the itch 
off her right nostril on to her leg, and as she did it she 
flashed a robust, contemptuous look at Velvet. “Is there 
sugar?” said the look, “or no sugar? I want no subtleties, 
no sentimentalities. I don’t care about your state of 



“national velvet” 13 

heart, your wretched conscience-prickings, your am- 
bitious desires. Is there sugar or no sugar? State your 
reasons for coming to see me and leave me to brood.” 

Velvet produced a piece of sugar and the pony bent her 
head round with a look of insolence, as though she still 
suspected the sugar to be an imitation lump. She took it 
with her lips, but she pressed her old teeth for a minute 
on the child’s palm, and at this trick, as old as Velvet’s 
childhood. Velvet thrust her arms over the sagging 
backbone and buried her face among the knobbles of the 
spine. The pony munched her lump stolidly, flirting her 
head up and down as though she were fishing for extra 
grains high up among her teeth. 

“If we had another pony,” said Velvet, “nobody 
would love you less. But we can’t go on like this, it’s 
awful. The gymkhanas all coming and nothing to ride. 
And you hate all that. It puts you in your worst mood.” 

The door opened and Mally came in. 

“Has she got a cough?” 

“She hasn’t coughed since I’ve been here,” said 
Velvet. 

“Get over, you awful old thing !” said Mally, “and let 
me pass.” 

“Don’t, Mally . . ” 

“The only way is to be as horrid to her as she is to us.” 

“I’ve left the lamp down there. Hang it up some- 
where. I can’t reach the hook.” 

Mally hung the lamp carefully out of way of the straw. 
The two sat up on the manger together. The pony, 
utterly disgusted, drew her ears back almost flat with her 
head, hung out her twitching underlip and faced round 
at an angle from them, her tail tucked sourly in. 

“Look at her I” said Mally. “My God, what a mount 1” 



14 “national velvet” 

Velvet took out her plate and wrapped it in her 
handkerchief. 

“Don’t you leave it here,” said Mally. “It won’t help 
us any. It was your plate-fiddling that went wrong at 
supper.” 

Mally got up on to the manger’s rim, reached to a 
ledge of wood below the window and took down two 
sticks of dark gold paper. 

“Crunchie?” said Velvet her face lighting. 

“I got them this morning.” 

“On tick still?” 

“Yes. She was cross but I swore we’d pay by Satur- 
day.” 

In the gold paper was a chocolate stick. Beneath the 
chocolate was a sort of honeycomb, crisp and friable, 
something between biscuit and burnt sugar. Fry’s 
chocolate crunchie. Not one of the sisters ate any other 
kind of sweet that year. It was their year’s choice. The 
year before it had been Carmel Crispies. 

“We must pay her. She’s a wispy woman. She’s pappy.” 

“Aren’t you queer about people. Always cutting ’em 
down to the bone.” 

“I don’t like people,” said Velvet, “except us and 
mother and Mi. I like only horses.” 

“Pity you weren’t a boy.” 

“I should a bin a poor thin boy. With muscles just on 
one arm. From meat chopping.” 

“As it is” said Mally, “we’re all going into tills. Into 
cages. To count out money.” 

“I’m not,” said Velvet, examining her crunchie. “Do 
you like the end best or the middle?” 

“I like the ones that don’t seem cooked. Sticky in the 
middle.” 



“ NATIONAL VELVET” 15 

“I wish I had a proper coat with checks,” said Velvet. 

“You? Why Edwina’s never had one.” 

“Edwina isn’t me. I’m not going to be a jersey- 
jumping child in a gymkhana any more.” 

“I don’t know how we’re going to do anything in the 
gymkhanas at all. Miss Ada’s turning sourer and sourer 
on us. She’ll end by refusing to go into the ring.” 

Miss Ada, seduced by the smell of the chocolate, 
turned slowly towards them, approaching by fractions. 

“It’s all right, Mally, I’ll give her a bit of mine,” said 
Velvet. “You bought ’em.” 

“It doesn’t matter who bought ’em,” said Mally. 
“We’re all owing together. . . . She can have a crumb 
of mine too. Don’t blow so, you idiotl She’s sneezed 
her crumb off my hand!” Miss Ada stooped her head 
and began a vain search for one chocolate crumb in two 
inches of dingy straw. 

The stable door opened and Mi put his head in. 

“Meredith in here?” 

“No . . . Whad’you want’er for?” 

“ Canary Breeder’s Annual’s come. Come on last post.” 

“Don’ know where she is,” said Malvolia. “She won’t 
be fit to live with for weeks.” 

“Mi . . . Mi . . . Mi!” called a voice from the dark. 

“In here. He’s got your Canary Breeder 

“Mother said so 1 Oh. ... I’ll come in. Give it to 
me!” 

Meredith took the book from Mi. “You’ve taken off 
the wrapper,” she said disappointedly, “I like to take it 
off myself,” and leant back against Miss Ada, unconscious 
of the pony’s body. 

“ ’Nother time you can fetch your own Annual said 
Mi. 



l6 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

“Bet you don’t remember nest year,” said Mally. 

“Listen to this! Listen to this! It’s what I always 
thought I” said Meredith. “Listen to Mr. Lukie. He says 
(J. Lukie Esquire it’s signed) he says ‘Cod liver oil 
should be given to mating birds. My own birds did 
magnificently on Poon’s Finchmisture Codliver . . .’ 
Miss Ada removed her support sharply and Meredith sat 
violently on the straw. “Blast !” she said, without looking 
round at the pony, opened the Annual and searched 
again for the page. 

“Yes but his birds were already mating,” said Mally. 
“You keep wanting to give them the cod liver oil to 
make them mate. It doesn’t make them mate. Lukie 
doesn’t say it does !” 

“I don’t see why . . said Meredith, still hunting for 
the page. “You’ve got to be lively to mate. Vital or 
something. Cod liver oil gives vitality. I read it . . . it’s 
here . . . ‘gives vitality to the mating bird.’ ” 

“Miss Ada’ll step on your hand if you leave it there,” 
said Velvet. 

Meredith got slowly up, reading as she rose. “It 
doesn’t say whether it’s the cock bird or the hen. Which 
do you think it is, Mi?” 

“Cock before, hen after,” said Mi. 

“There you are!” said Meredith. “I wish mother’d let 
me order it.” 

“You got it all over the sofa last time.” 

“But I’ve got a fountain pen filler now. I’ve trained 
the cock on drops of water. He’s as good as gold. The 
hen makes a fuss. I could do her in the yard.” 

“Bed,” said Edwina from the darkness outside. 

They filed out without a word, Meredith reading to the 
last by the flare of the hurricane lamp. The spring gale 



NATIONAL VELVET 


l 7 


cc 




had gone. The spring sky was indefinite and still, with a 
star in it. There was a new moon. 

“Are you coming, Velvet?’ 5 

“You can’t leave Mss Ada with nothing when we’ve 
used her stable. I’ll be a second.” She opened the corn 
bin and Miss Ada dropped ten years off her looks. She 
plunged her nose on the two hands that cupped the corn 
and ducked her head to sniff out the droppings before 
they sank too far in the straw. Velvet, alone, saw the 
new moon. She bowed three times, glanced round to see 
that no one saw, then standing in the shadow of the 
stable door she put her hands like thin white arrows 
together and prayed to the moon — “Oh God, give me 
horses, give me horses I Let me be the best rider in 
England 1” 



B 


Chapter II 

The next morning Meredith had to take some suet and a 
shin of beef over to Pendean. School was at nine. It was 
the last day of term. She rose at six. Mi called her on his 
way downstairs. He heated the coffee left over from last 
night and gave her three sardines between two pieces of 
bread. Then Meredith went out to saddle Miss Ada. 

Miss Ada had a crupper to her saddle, partly because 
the hills were so steep and partly because she had no 
shoulders. Meredith forgot the crupper and left it 
dangling. She put the girths on twisted, put the Canary 
Breeder in the basket with the suet, and started off. Miss 
Ada tapped smartly up the village street on the tarmac. 
The flints on the church shone like looking glass. 
Meredith trotted east into the rising sun. Her toes were 
warm and the sardines and the bread and coffee digested 
comfortingly. Over the Hullocks and down into the 
valleys, sun and shadow, cup and saucer, through the 
tarred gate, the wired gate, the broken gate, and finally 
into the Pendean valley and to the house. She gave in the 
beef and the suet, would have stopped to talk to Lucy the 
farm daughter (only Lucy had a temperature), started on 
the home journey, crupper still dangling, and Miss Ada 
restive now from the sore of the twisted girth. 

“We’ll go the Dead-Horse-Patch way,” said Meredith 
suddenly, aloud; and then disliked the sound of the 
spoken words in the lonely landscape. One of Miss Ada’s 
eats came forward. They were above the village now, 
though still two miles away. There were two ways down 

18 



“national velvet ” 19 

to the sea level. One by the two steep fields and the chalk 
road whence she had come up, the other by two more 
steep fields, two gates, a broken reaping machine, a 
cabbage field, to a haystack — and a place where a horse 
had once dropped dead. 

For thirteen years Miss Ada had said that place was 
haunted. She had told Mr. Brown so plainly when Velvet 
was crawling. And he had never insisted with her, but 
let her come down the way she had planned for herself 
by the chalk road. Now to Meredith’s mind came the 
desire to take Miss Ada the way she had never been taken 
by Edwina, Malvolia, Velvet or herself. 

Even before the division of the ways the intention 
became communicated to the pony. A hardening took 
place, a clenching of spirit. A weight came into Miss 
Ada’s head. She hung it provocatively upon her bit. 
Meredith sat uneasily and watchfully in her saddle. 

Miss Ada’s way was to the left. Meredith’s was to the 
right. Miss Ada had two methods of getting her way. 
Either she didn’t cede at all, or when Meredith pulled she 
ceded too fast and whipped round. This method she 
chose and the saddle slipped over on the too-slack 
girths. Meredith fell off. Miss Ada with a look of sudden 
youth flicked her heels, cantered to the wire fence, 
stooped her head and cropped. The basket with the 
Canarj Breeder had fallen too and Meredith, getting up, 
picked up her Annual^ glanced at Miss Ada and after a 
minute sat down in the sun to read. She was now faced 
with a walk home. Nobody ever caught Miss Ada once 
she was loose. She would go home her own way and at 
her own time. 

Meredith read comfortably what Mr. Lukie had to say, 
then closed her book and trudged off. 



20 “national velvet” 

“You’ll look an idiot I” she said partingly to Miss Ada, 
“Coming home with your saddle all upside down.” The 
whites of Miss Ada’s eyes glinted as she cropped. 
Meredith went down towards the Dead-Horse-Patch. 
When she was out of sight Miss Ada moved off by the 
way she had intended to go. 

Meredith ran down over a steep field that lay in shadow 
with its back to the rising sun, then up the opposite slope 
with the sun shining on her back. Over the rise she saw a 
rider in the distance nearing the haystack that stood at 
the edge of the cabbage field, the haystack where the 
legendary horse had laid down and died. The rider 
coming towards her she could not see at first whether 
he was walking or trotting. . . , Then came a flick of 
movement and he was off. The horse as usual had shied 
at the Dead-Horse-Patch. 

When Meredith reached him he was on his feet dusting 
himself down, a tripper-rider, a great lad with loose 
flannel trousers and bicycle clips. The horse, like Miss 
Ada, was cropping feverishly as though it had never seen 
grass before. 

“You got Mr. Belton’s Bumble Bee,” said Meredith. 

“What’s the matter with him? Seen a ghost?” said 
the young man. 

“Yes, he did,” said Meredith. 

“Eh? How? You had a fall too?” eyeing the green- 
grass stain on her hip. 

Meredith looked round to see if Miss Ada was in sight. 
“Bin sliding,” she said. 

“Can we catch the horse?” said the tripper. 

“Maybe,” said Meredith, “but I shouldn’t think so. I 
got to be in time for school.” 

“Jumped his whole length sideways,” said the tripper. 



“national velvet” 21 

“They always do, here,” said Meredith, edging gently 
towards the horse. 

“Why here?” 

“There’s a ghost in the ground. A horse ghost. 
Steams up mornings and evenings. Specially early when 
there’s a dew drying off.” Her hand was within a foot of 
the reins, extended soothingly. The young man saw her 
intention and ran round the other side. The horse, 
startled, removed itself another length away. 

“You mucked it,” said Meredith. “I must get on.” 

Miss Ada got home first. Velvet was putting salt- 
petre on her girth-gall as she stood in the sunlight on the 
street by the front door. The saddle was pitched up on 
the railings. The front door was open and Mr. Brown 
bareheaded, was enjoying his after breakfast pipe. 

“My girl,” he said when he saw Meredith, “Yer 
fifteen, annt you?” 

Meredith nodded and stood still before him. 

“Seven years you’ve saddled that pony and put her bits 
of leather on her, and to this day you onny hang ’em 
round her like blind cords. She’s got a sore’ll take a week 
to heal.” 

Miss Ada looked at Meredith with smug reproach. 

“If it was canaries . . muttered Velvet, dabbing 
with a rag. 

Meredith glowered at Velvet as she passed her to go in 
for her school books. 

Inside the sitting-room Mi was telling Donald to get 
on with his porridge. It was cold porridge, turned out of 
a cup. There was a hole in the top and treacle was poured 
inside. Donald was laying a sap from the side in to the 
centre. 

“You aren’t eating what you cut out,” said Mi, 



22 “national velvet” 

cleaning a rat-trap with emery paper and the rust covering 
the cloth in showers. 

“I am,” said Donald. But he wasn’t. 

“Donald done yet?” called Mrs. Brown, “I’m washing 
the plates.” 

“He’s fiddling,” said Mi. 

Mrs. Brown came to the door. “You get down and 
bring that porridge in here,” she said as she rubbed a 
plate. 

The sweetness of Donald’s face remained unchanged. 
He watched the treacle run out down the sap. “I 
dooont . . .” he drawled. 

Mrs. Brown gave no second chances. It was her 
strength. 

She took Donald in one great arm and the plate of 
porridge in the other and removed him. The sweetness 
of his face was still unchanged. 

“He’ll never eat that,” said Meredith. “You’re sitting 
on my atlas.” 

Mi pulled it out from beneath him. “He never eats 
anything he’s fiddled with,” said Mi, “because it’s turned 
into something else in his mind. Hark to them 
hammering . . .” 

“You’d never think, to look at the Green, that there’d 
be a Fair in twenty-four hours. Just a lot of old sticks 
and men hitting them in.” 

“It’ll be ready. You won’t be though.” 

“I’m just going. Last day. Holidays to-morrow.” 

“All four hanging round the house all day. Life’ll be a 
joke.” 

“This bit a millet, Mi,” said Meredith, dragging a 
length out of the sideboard drawer. “Stick it in for the 
male. Mi, please . . .” 



“national velvet” 23 

“Them birds . . .” Meredith blocked the light in the 
doorway and was gone. 

* * * * 

“Blast and blast and hell . . .” said Mi softly. He 
had caught his finger in the rat-trap. 

“Hell,” said Donald softly in the doorway. His silver 
hair hung in a lock over his forehead. His eyes were film- 
eyes and blue, with film lashes. His platinum-blond, 
Hollywood head was set on a green jersey. His bottom 
was bare and his pants hung down unbuttoned. 

“You’ve got off your pot 1” said Mi threateningly. 
“Get on back.” Donald disappeared again into the inner 
room, his behinds gleaming like the white polish of two 
peeled and hard boiled eggs. 

Edwina went in to Worthing for a piano lesson. 
Mally, Meredith and Velvet waded through a last day of 
grammar and map reading behind the walls of the village 
school. The children’s voices droned behind the windows 
and the hammering on the Village Green increased. At 
break the children watched the hammers from the corner 
of the asphalte yard. The greasy pole was up, the 
cokemut shies were up, there was a frail porch with 
“Welcome” written on it. 

Marks for the term were read out, and prizes given. 
Malvolia got Hiawatha . 

At home it was steak and kidney pudding for dinner 
and Mr. Brown poured in the boiling water through a 
hole in the suet. Velvet kept her plate in and swallowed 
whole. The kidneys went down like stones. Mr. Brown 
finished his “Meat Fancier” as he ate. Donald ate his 
meat well and said gently some six or seven times, “Is it 
castle puddings?” Nobody knew. His question was not 



24 “national velvet” 

insistent but soft. Sometimes he said it through his 
meat. 

“Yer spitting, Donald,” said Mi. 

“I said” said Donald, dreamily. . . . 

Mrs. Brown looked at him. “It is,” she said. 

“You never used to tell us l" said Velvet. 

“Times” said Mrs. Brown “I don’t do what I always 
did.” 

Malvolia deared the plates. Mrs. Brown fetched in a 
city of castle puddings and a jam-pot full of heated jam. 
She served Donald, the baby, first. Two castle puddings 
and a dab of jam on the plate. He looked at his two 
puddings and began to examine them. He drooped his 
Hollywood head like a smiling angel. 

“Fiddling again,” said Mi ominously. “You wanted 
’em too much.” 

“Yore putting it into his head,” said Mally. 

Edwina walked in and put down her music roll and 
her hat. She pulled a chair up. 

“Your bit’s there,” said Mrs. Brown, “on the side- 
board.” 

“Guvner an’ me we wash,” said Mi into his plate. 
“Funny how men wash for girls an’ girls don’ wash 
for men.” 

“Anybody knows boys are dirtier than girls,” said 
Mally. 

“Maybe. But grown men wash freer than women.” 

Edwina sat down, ignoring criticism. 

“Get on, get on,” said Mrs. Brown to Donald. 

“I am gettin’ on,” said Donald, and opened his mouth 
to show that it was full. 

“Bin turning round and round,” said Mi. “Give a 
swaller.” 



“national velvet” 2J 

“Can’t swatter,” said Donald, “ ’tisn’t slidy.” 

“Isn’t he lovely!” said Velvet, coming out of a dream 
quite suddenly and looking as though she had seen him 
for the first time. “Shall I teach you to ride, Donald?” 

“You’ve put him off proper,” said Mrs. Brown. 

Donald opened his eyes and struggled with his mouth. 
Then he leant over his plate and spat out the revolving 
mass. “Yes,” he said, when he was empty, “yes, when? 
Now?” 

Mrs. Brown rose slowly, took her own empty plate 
away to the sideboard, moved calmly and without anger 
round to Donald. 

“You’ll finish alone,” she said, and gathered him up. 
Donald and his plate sailed into the back kitchen. 

“Well, really Velvet,” said Edwina. 

“He doesn’t care,” said Velvet. “Wouldn’t he be 
lovely in the under six?” 

“On Miss Ada?” said Matty. 

“She’s too wide really.” 

“YouwantalitdenarrowthinglikeLucy’sRowanberry.” 

“Lucy never can find anyone small enough to ride 
Rowanberry anyway.” 

“Could we start him, father?” said Velvet. 

“Eh?” said Mr. Brown, struggling to leave his page, 

“Teach Donald. So’s he could be ready for the under 
six?” 

“Under what?” said Mr. Brown. “The under what?” 

“Gy mkhana ,” said Velvet. “The class for children 
under six. Six years.” 

“Ask your mother,” said Mr. Brown, and returned to 
his page. 

“Then that’s that,” said Velvet, rising happily. “Can 
I get down?” 



z 6 “national velvet” 

There was no answer. 

“F’whatayave received thank God,” said Velvet to no 
one in particular, and disappeared into the kitchen. 

“Did you give ’em that millet?” said Meredith 
suddenly. 

“Forgot,” said Mi. 

“F’whatayave received thank God,” said Meredith 
with a dark look at him, and shot from the room. Mr. 
Brown pushed back his chair. 

“You girls said your grace?” he said getting up. 

“F’whatayave received thank God,” said Edwina. 
And the meal was finished. 

* * * * 

The candle in the scarlet-painted candlestick was burnt 
low and had a shroud. The bottle-candle was high and 
gave a good light. 

Spring and evening sky showed between undrawn 
cotton curtains. 

Mrs. Brown sat on a stout mahogany chair before her 
dressing table, and Velvet knelt behind her unhooking 
her dress from neck to waist at the back. The dress was 
dark blue rep, built firm. It was like unhooking the 
strain on a shrunk sofa-covering. Hook after hook 
Velvet travelled down till at last she reached far below 
the waist. Then Mrs. Brown stood up and the dark blue 
dress dropped to the floor, leaving her in a princess 
petticoat like a great cotton lily. The strings of this, 
untied at neck and waist by Velvet, disclosed her in bust- 
bodice, stays and dark-blue cloth knickers. 

“The iodine’s in the wall cupboard,” said mother. 

Velvet went to the wall cupboard and extracted the 
iodine from an army of bottles and jars. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


z 7 


cc 




“N 5 the cotton wool / 5 said mother. 

Velvet, behind her, undid the strings of the bust 
bodice. Got down to bedrock, she knelt and examined 
the wound. 

“Mus 5 take your stays off, mother . 55 

Mrs. Brown rose and drew breath. Working from the 
bottom up she unhooked the metal fencework within 
which she lived, and sat down again. “Star out , 55 she 
said, staring through the window. The star was like a 
slip of silver tinfoil plumb between the hang of the 
curtains. 

“M’m,” said Velvet, and she glanced at the star over 
her mother’s shoulder. “Metal’s worked right through 
the top of the stays and cut you,” said Velvet. 

“Ought to get whalebone,” said Mrs. Brown, sniffing 
at her own economy. 

“Yes,” said Velvet, “you ought. S’made a nasty 
place.” She dapped the iodine on the abrasion caused by 
the jutting shaft of the stays. “Hurt?” 

“Stings,” said Mrs. Brown. The star winked and 
stuttered. 

“Stick on a band-aid piece,” said Mrs. Brown. “Thur’s 
a tin’n the cupboard.” 

Velvet stuck the plaster on to the wide hard back. 

Mrs. Brown glared at the star. 

“Pray to God y’don’t get fat, child,” she said. 

Velvet sat back on her heels aghast. 

“You can’t be” said Mrs. Brown, “what you don’t 
took” 

“You can, you can!” said Velvet. “You are, mother !” 

“Maybe,” said Mrs. Brown. . . . “But you gotter dig. 
You gotter know. You gotter believe.” 

Velvet put her thin arms on her mother’s shoulders 



28 “national velvet” 

and kissed her on the enemy fat. She winced at a sign of 
regret or weakness in the beloved mountain. 

“There’s nothing, nothing you can’t do, mother. 
You’ve got us all beat. Mi thinks you’re Godalmighty. 
N’we all do.” 

Mrs. Brown smiled in the glass. “Chut, child! Don’t 
mount up in a torment. M’not grumbling. M’out of 
condition, but it came on me. I’m only saying . . . you 
poor thin, hairpin . . . KEEP thin! There’s no song an’ 
dance . . Mrs. Brown was bolting herself back into 
the fence. She stood upright. 

“S’awful to grow up,” said Velvet. 

“Nope,” said Mrs. Brown. 

“Why isn’t it?” 

“Things come suitable to the time,” said Mrs. Brown. 

The thin slip, the quivering twig looked back at her 
mother. 

“Lot o’ nonsense,” said Mrs. Brown, “talked about 
growing up.” She stepped into her princess petticoat and 
drew it up. “Tie me,” she said. The candle in the red 
candlestick drowned itself in fat and went out. “Child- 
birth,” said the voice, gruff and soothing, talking to the 
star and to the child (and the child knelt at the strings of 
the petticoat), “an’ being in love. An’ death. You can’t 
know ’em till you come to ’em. No use guessing and 
dreading. You kin call it pain. . . . But what’s pain? 
Depends on who you are an’ how you take it. Tie that 
bottom string looser. Don’t you dread nothing. Velvet.” 

“But you’re so mighty. Like a tree,” said Velvet. 

“Shivery to be your age. You don’t know nuthin’. 
Later on you get coated over.” (Silence, and the hypnotic 
night.) “S’a good thing to be coated over. You don’t 
change nothin’ underneath.” 



“national velvet” 29 

“All the same it’s awful to grow up,” said Velvet. 
“All this changing and changing, an’ got to be ready for 
something. I don’t ever want children. Only horses.” 

“Who can tell?” said Mrs. Brown. 

“I’ve got Me,” said Velvet, putting her thin hand 
across her breast. “I can’t ever be anything else but Me?” 

“You’re all safe,” said Mrs. Brown carelessly, stooping 
with grunts to pull up her dress. “You got both of us, 
you art me. Say your prayers now an’ get along.” 

“Not yet, not yet.” 

“Say your prayers, I say. Down on your knees an’ 
say your prayers. You go plunging off this time o’ night, 
don’t you? Getting into your bed all of a daze an’ a 
worry. Say your prayers, I say 1” 

Velvet went on her knees in the middle of the floor. 
Mrs. Brown sat down, the dress in wreaths around her, 
and took a knife to her nails. 

“Ah . . . v’Farver . . . ch . . . art’n’eaven,” mum- 
bled the voice from the floor. The blue in the window 
had gone and the star had companions. 

“ . . . power n’a GloryamEN.” Mother . . 

“Yes.” 

“You’re all right, aren’t you?” 

“M’as good as living forever. Get on off to bed. 
N’Fm not cornin’ to say good-night. Father is.” 

Velvet kissed her. “Come an’ say good-night . . .” 

“No, I’m not. Hook me up before you go.” Velvet 
nicked up the great line of steely hooks to the top. 

“Now go.” Velvet went. 

“Child gets all alight at night,” said Mrs. Brown to 
herself. 

Velvet’s head came back round the door. 

“Good-night mother — where you going?” 



30 “national velvet” 

“Down the village.” 

“What for?” 

“Will you GO!” 

Mrs. Brown went down the village with the key of the 
empty shop in her pocket. She had accounts to finish. 
The Hullpcks rose above her in hoops into the sky. The 
stars floated in the olive glaze of the weedy pond. The 
boys and girls were hushed, black and still, against the 
doorways. Edwina stood like a statue at the cobbler’s 
doorway as her mother passed, but her mother knew her. 

“Growing,” muttered Mrs. Brown as she went on. 
“Poor lass has to hide it.” 

The beautiful boy beside Edwina breathed again. He 
was golden-haired, and trying for the police. He felt he 
had no real chance for Mr. Brown’s Edwina, and he had 
no idea he was her first, her breathtaking first man. 

“What’ll Velvet . . . ?” murmured Mrs. Brown, look- 
ing a moment at the sky, and seeing Velvet’s bony, fairy 
face. “What’ll men say about my Velvet?” 

The sound of hoofs striking on metalled road came out 
of the darkness, and down the street, all alone, galloped a 
horse. Bodies shot out of the doorways and shouts 
sprang from shadows. Something black and white and 
furious raced down the street. Mrs. Brown stopped and 
stepped off the pavement. With a striking of hoofs, 
sparks flying on the flints, a piebald horse, naked of 
leather, wild and alone, slid almost to his haunches and 
stood stock-still, shaking and panting. He lowered his 
head. 

“A suitor for Velvet !” 

A suitor for Velvet. The horse glared at Mrs. Brown. 
It had strange eyes, a white wall eye and one of darkest 
blue. The light from the corner street lamp swam in its 



“ NATIONAL VELVET” 31 

eyeballs. It trembled and glared; then at Mrs. Brown’s 
slowly extended hand, shook its neck with a shudder, 
half reared, and turning, galloped off up the street 
towards the Hullocks. 

“That perishin’ piebald from Ede’s,” exclaimed a 
voice. 

“That you, Mr. Croom?” 

“Give me a turn,” said Mr. Croom. “That’s the third 
time this week that creature’s got loose. Ede says he’ll 
raffle him for the Fait. Wouldn’t be a bad idea. Wonder- 
ful what you get for those raffles.” 

While Malvolia and Meredith were undressing Velvet 
was driving her big toes with long pieces of tape. She lay 
on her back in bed, her knees bent, talking in a mono- 
tonous voice like a sleepwalker. 

“Careful through the gate now. Mind now. Get on. 
Satin!” and she gave the side of her thigh a switch with a 
light twig she held in her hand. The long tapes ran 
through her fingers which she held on her stomach, and 
both her knees pranced up and down, — a restive pair of 
well-matched chestnuts in the shooting wagonette. 
With another switch and a spring forward the knees rose 
slightly in the air, were drawn back firmly by the reins, 
reined in, and stood still before the porch of the old 
castle. . . . 

The door opened and Mr. Brown surveyed the spectacle 
of his youngest daughter, bare to the waist, her night- 
gown fallen on her chest, the bedclothes peeled to the 
floor, her eyes bright and her toes chained to her hands 
by tapes. Mally was cleaning her teeth in her drawers. 
Meredith was covering the bird cages. 

“Mother says it’s time,” he said removing his pipe. 
“Ah . . . yer daft. Velvet.” 



32 “national velvet” 

“Fm only allowed on Mondays. I’ve two minutes 
more.” 

“Where’d you get it from I want to know? D’you 
other girls go driving nights a week?” 

“I used to,” said Mally. “Now Fm bigger mother 
says Fll break the bed.” 

“Where's the baize off the cages gone to?” 

“Velvet’s used it under Miss Ada’s saddle. That time 
she got a sore back.” 

“What’s that you got on them?” 

“It’s Edwina’s knickers she had for the party. They 
got burnt, drying.” 

“Shame bumin’ your good knickers. Canaries wake 
early with that thin stuff. Thought I heard ’em yesterday 
morning. Where’s Edwina?” 

“Be up in a minute. Just gone down the street a 
second.” 

“There . . . I’ve finished!” said Velvet, fishing for 
the bedclothes from her bed. “The chestnuts hardly 
needed a rub down. They were cool. I’ve left the roan 
cob for to-night. He can stay out to grass.” 

“Daft as a sparrow,” said Mr. Brown at random. “I 
doubt if a girl ought to be what you are.” Stooping, 
with his pipe in his mouth, he flung the bedclothes up on 
top of her, blew out the candle and made for the door. 

“Fm not in bed 1” said Mally. 

“Then you ought to be,” said Mr. Brown. “Say your 
prayers.” And disappeared. 

Velvet heard the cruelty and wild abandon of the iron 
feet and shuddered and sat up, excited. It was too late to 
move. The horse was gone. Gone into the sea? Was it a 
horse? The bed clung round her like protecting arms. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


» 


33 


« 


“Did you hear it?” (from the bed beside her). 

In three beds three bodies were upright. Edwina’s bed 
was empty. Then, after the pause, the iron feet plunged 
back again, and too late all three were at the window. 
The door opened and the curtains blew. 

“Edwinal” 

“Yes. Hush.” Edwina was panting. She had flown 
up the street and up the stairs. 

“Father put the light out?” 

“Yes. What horse . . .” 

“Did he say ’bout me not being here?” 

“I daresay he thought you’d gone with mother. What 
horse . . .” 

“Piebald. Ede’s piebald. Let me . . .” 

“Didn’t know Ede had a piebald. How d’you know 
what . . . ?” 

“Be quiet. Get back. I’m getting into bed.” 

“Aren’t you going to wash?” 

“No.” 

“TEETH?” said Mally, impressed. 

“NO.” 

“You bin with Teddy,” said Mally with satisfaction, 
getting back to bed. 

“You shut up,” said Edwina. “Won’t tell you about 
the horse.” 

“Thur’s nothin’ to telL Piebald horse. Farmer 
Ede’s. Teddy’s told you that.” 

“Huh, an’ near ran into mother I” snarled Edwina, 
naked, pulling her dressing gown over the clothes 
tumbled on the chair. 

“Mother? What’s it done to mother?” said Velvet 
sharply. 

“Mother was in the street,” said Edwina in a wasp’s 



34 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

voice, pulling on her pyjamas. 

“Touched her? Knocked her?” said Velvet, flashing 
out of bed. 

“Keep your hair on,” said Edwina. 

“Bitch !” sobbed Velvet and flew out of the door and 
down the stairs. 

“Now you bitched yerself !” said Mally calmly. “Now 
they’ll know you bin out with Teddy. You know well 
mother’s not hurt.” 

“Of course she isn’t hurt. Should I be here I” hissed 
Edwina. 

“Stringing Velvet off like a catapult ! First you go off 
with boys. Second you upset Velvet. Third you’ll be 
found out. Fourth Velvet’ll be sick all night. Sense, 
haven’t you?” 

“Be . . . quiet . . .” said Edwina, in bed, in a dull 
strangled voice. “Meredith . . . Merry . . . Get her 
back . . 

“What did the horse do to mother, ’Dwina?” 

“Sort a bowed to her. Slid to a full stop and hung 
its head and really sort a bowed to her. An" it reared 
and dashed back up the street home again. Get Velvet, 
Merry.” 

Father was sitting looking at nothing in the living- 
room. He was just tipping his chair and swaying. 

“Father!” said Velvet, scared, in the doorway, “is 
mother all right?” 

“Fine,” said father without moving. He turned his 
eyes slowly. 

In the shadow behind the sideboard sat Mi mending 
Jacob’s collar. 

“There’s bin a horse down the street . . .’’said Velvet 
uncertainly. 



“national velvet” 35 

“Gallopin’,” assented father round the stem of his 
pipe. 

There was a pause. 

“I dreamt it hit mother,” mumbled Velvet. 

“You did?” 

“Yes. But it was a horse. That wasn’t the dream.” 

“I just come up the street,” said Mi. “Yore ma’s 
sitting with the blinds up, in the shop, totting up.” 

“I’ll go back,” said Velvet. “It was a dream.” She 
turned and saw Meredith’s face come round the doorway 
from the dark stairs. 

“I had a dream, Meredith,” she said. “I’m coming 
back.” 

Mi put the collar down and crossing to Velvet bent 
down and felt her ankles. “Cold as railings,” he said. 
“I’ll getchu a brick. Keep your stomach steady.” He 
disappeared into the kitchen and Velvet turned back to 
the stairs. Suddenly, at the stairhead something caught 
her jumping heart. She was back in the room again at her 
father’s side, by his tipping, swaying chair. 

“You all right, too, father?” she whispered. He put his 
arm round her and pulled her on his lap. “You get 
them teeth straight!” he said to her, and rocked her 
meditatively while his pipe smoked up through her 
cotton hair. 




B 


Chapter III 


The back window on the yard was blocked with cactus 
pots. In front of the window stood the fern-table with 
two big ferns in brass holders. 

The street window had pots of blue and red and pied 
cineraria standing along its shelf, looking like a Union 
Jack. The eastern light of the morning burst through 
the cactus greenery on Mally laying the table with a 
darned and yellowing cloth. She clattered the crockery 
on from the sideboard, and the girls’ voices called from 
the larder and kitchen. 

“Mice bin at the bottom. . . . It’s all run out 1” 

“Mice where?” 

“Porridge packet. They’ve made a hole.” 

“Don’t cut the rim off the toast, D’wina. I like ’em with 
the binding.” 

Mi looked in with a packet in his hand. “Whur’s 
Velvet?” 

“Vel VET!” 

“Coming down now.” 

“Mi’s got your pumice.” 

“Mi?” said Velvet coming through the attic stair door. 
“Oh, thank you. Mi.” 

“Do it now,” said Mi. 

“Clean my plate before breakfast!” said Velvet, 
outraged. 

“Yer pa’s sure to ask.” 

“I do it AFTER breakfast I What’s the good a doing it 
before!” 


}6 



NATIONAL VELVET 


37 


c< 




"Acids of the night,” said Mi and disappeared, 

"Acids of what?” 

"Get on an’ do it,” said Mally. 

"You’d think that plate was jewellery I” said Velvet 
and went into the scullery. 

"Cost more than your mother’s engagement ring,” 
said Mr. Brown, passing through to the slaughter-house. 
"She grumbling again?” 

"Gone to clean it,” said Mally. "Kedgeree!” 

Mother brought in the soup basin of kedgeree. Donald 
stumped near her skirts. Edwina and Velvet came in and 
sitting down began to eat. 

"I bin sick in the night,” said Donald. 

"You haven’t,” said Mrs. Brown. "Get on your 
chair .” 

"Why haven’t I?” demanded Donald. 

"Don’t let him start whying!” said Mally. 

"Why haven’t I, I say?” demanded Donald. "Tell me 
why, I say?” 

"Get on to your chair and don’t let’s hear any more 
about it,” said Mrs. Brown. 

"Why haven’t I, I say?” Donald held on. "You 
changed my sheets. The new ones was cold.” 

"I changed your sheets for other reasons,” said Mrs. 
Brown. "Now get on.” 

"The new ones was horrible,” muttered Donald 
subsiding. "Is it kedgeree?” 

"Did you wash your neck. Velvet?” 

"Yes, mother ” 

"Before your frock or after your frock?” 

"After.” 

"Then don’t. Your frock’s soaking. Where’s 
Meredith?” 



38 “national velvet” 

“Canary’s loose.” 

Mr. Brown opened the door again and came in. 

Donald brightened. “I was sick in the night, daddy.” 

“Donald 1” 

“I was sick all over . . 

Mrs. Brown removed Donald and the kedgeree to the 
kitchen. 

“Lie. He wet his bed,” said Mally. 

“Oh,” said Mr. Brown and helped himself to kedgeree. 
“I heard your mother moving about. Why don’t she 
leave him wet? He won’t hurt. He’s no more than damp.” 

“Bad for his habits,” said Mrs Brown returning. She 
sat down and drew the marmalade towards her. 

“I’ve caught her 1” Meredith came in glowing. 

“Take your kedgeree into the kitchen and let Donald 
tell you how sick he’s been,” said Velvet. 

“You’ll do no such thing,” said Mrs. Brown. “That 
child gets on one idea like a railway track. It’s you and 
your stomach. Velvet, that puts him on to it.” 

“Can’t help my stomach,” said Velvet. “ ’D’ give 
anything in the world to change it.” 

“You’ll grow out of it.” 

“Sixteen, you said.” 

“Sixteen, I said.” 

“Why sixteen?” 

“You eat,” said Mrs. Brown. 

“Can I come back now?” Donald appeared in the door- 
way, holding his plate unsteadily in his fists. 

“Yes if you’ve finished.” 

“I’ve finished.” 

“All?” 

“All except the bones. Jacob’s eaten them.” 

“Oh . . .” Velvet flew up and left the room. “Mi !” 



NATIONAL VELVET 


c< 


yy 


39 


she called into the yard from the kitchen. “Jacob’s eaten 
fish-bones !” 

Donald lifted his plate to the sideboard and the spoon 
flew over his head to the floor. 

“That child say he finished?” demanded Mr. Brown. 

“I finished/’ said Donald. 

“It’s all on his plate still/’ said Mr. Brown, and went on 
reading his paper. 

“Velvet! ” called Mally. “It’s a do. Velvet I Come back. 
Jacob hasn’t got a bone.” 

Velvet appeared in the doorway. 

“Donald,” said Mrs. Brown, turning full on him, “have 
you told me a story?” 

“It was a story,” said Donald gravely. 

“Do you know what a story is?” 

“No,” said Donald. 

Mrs. Brown removed him to her bedroom. 

“Piebald’s gone down the street again,” said Mi, 
putting his hair in at the door and disappearing. The 
four sisters rose and streamed from the room. Mr. Brown 
glancing up once and half turning round, went on with 
his paper. Mrs. Brown returned. 

“Donald sorry?” said Mi. Brown. 

“He’s thinking,” said Mrs. Brown. “He isn’t sure. 
Girls gone?” 

“That piebald of Ede’s got loose again,” said Mr. 
Brown. There was peace and silence. 

The tiny window pane between the cineraria was 
filled with black and white and the piebald went back up 
the street at a hand gallop. After his metal feet the street 
rustled with running shoes. 

“That animal’ll knock down a pram one of these days,” 
observed Mr. Brown. “Seems to make for the sea.” 



40 “national velvet” 

“Curious horse,” said Mrs. Brown. “Climbs out in the 
night when the moon’s up.” 

“Don’t he jump?” said Mr. Brown. 

“Jumps a house,” said Mrs. Brown. “Sort of rodeo, so 
they say. . . . Yes, Donald? What is it?” 

“I’m sorry,” called Donald in muffled tones through 
the door. 

Mrs. Brown opened the door. 

“I’m sorry I was sick in the night,” said Donald. 

“Child’ll make a lawyer,” said Mr. Brown. 

Meredith returned to the room. 

“He went right through the poles they’re hammering 
up for the Fair,” she said. “Then down to the Post 
Office, an’ slid about and up the Chalk Road back on to 
the Hullocks again. Mr. Ede was just going by ’n his 
cart. Cursed.” 

“He’ll get into trouble if that horse hurts someone,” 
said father. “Mi done his breakfast?” 

“Had it early. He’s got given a glass tongue. Ate it in 
his room.” 

“Well tell’m I want’m at twelve for six sheep.” Mr. 
Brown passed away through the slaughter-house door. 
Mi came in from the street. 

“Six sheep at twelve, father says.” 

“M’m. Piebald jumped a five bar gate with a wire on 
the top. Sailed over.” 

“Who says so?” 

“Fellow.” 

“Is it broke?” 

“The gate?” 

“No. The piebald.” 

“Ede says it’s as quiet as a lamb. Just can’t bear to be 
shut up. Bit mad.” 



“national velvet” 41 

Mi blew his nose carefully, polished it, replaced his 
handkerchief and went for the yard door. 

“You got a bit a time?” said Meredith. 

“Get on an’ do your canaries. Gotter sweep my 
room.” 

“Done my canaries. Fll come an 5 sweep yours.” 

Mi sniffed and went off. Meredith caught up a broom 
which stood beside the wall. 

“You put that down,” said Mi, who knew she had 
taken it without turning his head. “S’yer ma’s own.” 
The broom was meekly put back. Meredith followed 
him. 

Mi’s room was outside, next to Miss Ada. It was an 
old loose box that had fallen into disrepair. He took 
great pride in it and kept it spodess. Just within the 
door, which was propped open for freshness with a 
garden rake, was a large hole in the floor filled with 
rotting wood. The wood round the edges of the hole 
gave way like toast and Mi had marked a white ring 
round the hole and written in paint “Step further than 
this.” He took his own broom and began to sweep. 

“S’got no hairs on it,” said Meredith, standing about 
and in the way. 

No answer. Mi did not like criticism. He swept the 
dust of the room vigorously into a heap, then propelled 
it with his brush over a portion of the painted line and 
into the hole in the floor. Picking up an old milk bottle 
by the neck he rammed the dust horizontally under the 
floor boards. 

“Now whadjer want?” he said. 

“Hammer’n nails,” said Meredith. 

“Go out of the room then. Thurs no call fer you to see 
where I keep things."” 



NATIONAL VELVET 


9 > 


42 


<e 


Meredith went outside into the sunny yard and stood 
with her back to the wall on the far side of the door. 
Honourably she looked away and straight before her. 
Mi went to his bed and abstracted a hammer and tobacco 
box of nails from under his mattress. 

“How big?” he called. 

Meredith measured her thumb joint. “Inch an’ a 
half.” 

“Whafor?” 

“Hang my Roller cage.” 

“Find a joist then. It’s rubble and such in between.” 
Mi came to the doorway with the hammer and nails. 

“D’you think . . . ?” began Meredith. 

“No,” said Mi shortly. “You get into yer own hot 
water fer puttin’ yer own nails in the house. Yor pa’s 
down the village.” 

“I know,” said Meredith. “S’ why I’m hurrying.” 

She disappeared with the hammer and nails, and Mi 
took down his shaving mirror and polished it with his 
handkerchief. He replaced a drawing pin or two on the 
corners of his series of “Grand National winners” 
pinned round the walls, and set the kettle on to his Primus 
that he might scald out his milk bottle. 

Velvet and Mally appeared in the yard and hung 
about. 

“Where’s Merry?” 

“Hammering,” said Mi. 

Silence fell and the kettle hummed. Mally and Velvet 
looked with envy from the yard into the loosebox- 
bedroom. 

“Wish I had a room of my own,” said Velvet. “So I 
could hang up pictures.” 

Mi came to the door, and holding the milk bottle 



“national velvet” 43 

over the hole in the floor poured the scalding water 
into it. 

“I’ve earned it,” said Mi when the last drop was in. 

“Why?” 

“Full-grown,” he said, and sucked the gap in his teeth. 
He looked at them, long and straight. They looked 
back. 

“They’re puttin’ that piebald up to raffle,” he said at 
last, and yawned deceptively. 

“Raffle!” said Velvet, “Raffle!” A pause. Then — 
“Anybody might get it?” 

“Anybody with a shilling.” 

“Cost ony a shilling? You got a shilling, Mally?” 

“Nothing at all.” 

“Nor I’ve got nothing . . .” 

“Oh a shilling’s easy got.” 

“But we ought to have five. Donald ought to have a 
chance.” 

“You’ll never get five 1” 

“That’s whur yer wrong,” said Mi. “I’ll give you five. 
You kin pay me back in yer time. I got a tip from a 
perisher.” 

“Oh, Mi darling ! What perisher?” 

“Togged up perisher that was swanky and windy and 
couldn’t sit his horse in his best suit.” 

“What’d you do?” 

“Fellow hired Belton’s May Day and went out gallop- 
ing. Top boots, spurs and checks, an’ a bowler with a 
string on it.” 

“Where were you?” 

“Just walkin’.” 

“Oh Mi! You were sitting behind the haystack with 
the ghost!” 



44 


NATIONAL VELVET 




« 


“Had to sit somewhere.” 

“Tellus . . 

“I saw May Day go out. Galloped out. Perisher’d 
never heard of walkin’ or trottin’. Half the sky was 
dancin’ up an’ down under ’is bottom, so I legged up the 
other way an’ come to the haystack.” 

Pause. 

”... an’ he galloped round,” egged Velvet. 

“I see him coming down towards the haystack. May 
Day blowy and sweaty an’ the ghost waiting for them as 
jolly as a daisy.” 

“Oh . . . Mi . . . YOU . . . SAW it.” 

“IT? No, s’not my kind. It’s a horse ghost. Perisher 
was red in the face an’ lumbering along. Toes pointin’ 
down and not even clutching with his calves Not 
clutchin’ with anything. Heaving like a sack. Stock all 
out of place under his ear, having a high old seven and 
sixpence worth. . . . Whoop . . . went May Day when 
the ghost made a pass at her. Sprung right across the 
road an’ the perisher fell on the ghost, far’s I c’d see. 
Serve it right, too. Reel vicious horse that must’ve been 
that got killed there. To have a ghost like that. Why, 
you can’t miss making a bit in that place. Every hiring 
fellow that comes down from London spins off at that 
haystack. You ony got to sit behind it and pick up the 
bits.” 

“They don’t all tip you though.” 

“Most do. This one give me five. Here you are !” 

Mi pulled two half crowns out of his pocket and 
handed them to Velvet in trust for them all. 

“Thank you awfully. Mi. I’ll give it you back. Swear.” 
And she hooked both middle fingers over her index 
fingers and held them up. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


45 




99 


“Witches* stuff!” said Mi contemptuously. “Keep yer 
word and don’t crack yer fingers. And see this. Velvet, 
I'm a fool to do it. That piebald's as big a perisher 's the 
fellow that tipped me the five. 'M going up to look at 
him this afternoon and likely I'll be sorry when I see his 
murdering white eye.” 

“Can we come too, can we come too?” 

“You got yer muslins to iron.” 

“MUSLINS!” said Velvet outraged. 

“Yer ma's just rung 'em out of the suds. I seen 'em. 
For the Fair.” 

“I'm not going to wear MUSLIN,” said Velvet with a 
voice of iron. 

“You’ll wear what yer told,” said Mi placidly. “I'll 
slip up after dinner. Nearer one. I got them sheep at 
twelve. Sounds 's if I won’t get any dinner. See 
Donald . . .” 

Donald was beautifully dressed in a fresh striped 
blouse and grey pants the length of a coat cuff. The 
insides of both ankles were fastened up with sticking 
plaster and his silver hair had just left the prongs of a 
damp comb. The brown of his arms was a mixture of 
coffee and silk. 

“Whur's the stinkin' ants?” said Donald. 

“What's that?” 

“A stinkin' ant jus' stung me.” 

“Wher'd it sting you?” 

“On my thumb,” said Donald clearly, and held up his 
thumb. 

There was no mark of any kind on the pink thumb. 

“Say 'stinging,' ” said Mally. “Ants don’t sting. It 
was a wasp.” 

“Go on,” said Mi. “Don't be s’old-fashioned. He'll 



46 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

say ‘stinkin’ ant" till he says ‘stinging wasp" . . . and 
it’ll all come natural.” 

Mally looked down her nose at Donald. “You’re 
soft. Mi,” she said. “You bin and killed something, 
Donald.” 

“It wanted to be dead,” said Donald. “A very little 
ant.” 

“Throwing the blame on the ant!” said Mally. “I 
thought as much!” 

Donald made a pass with his foot. “Thur’s another 
one,” he said. “They all want to be dead.” 

“Nice excuse !” said Velvet. “Stop it, Donald !” 

“Every one of those ants,” said Mally, taking a deep 
breath and blowing out her cheeks, “has got an aunt and 
an uncle an’ little brothers an’ . . 

“This one hadn’t,” said Donald, and ran away. 

“S’awful to be so pretty,” said Velvet, looking after 
him. “He’s like a actress.” 

“Actress my boot,” said Mally. “He’s a common 
murderer.” 

“Likes to see things stop,” said Mi. “Anybody’s the 
same. You better go iron them muslins. Sooner you get 
them ironed sooner you see the piebald.” 

“Be in towels yet,” said Velvet. “Mine was too short 
last summer. It’ll look like a ham frill this.” 

“Got to get on,” said Mi. “Frittering my morning 
away . . and disappeared. 

“He won’t go an’ see that piebald without us?” said 
Velvet. 

“What about the blasted muslins?” said Mally. 

“Better go.” 

“Here’s Meredith ! What’s the matter, Merry?” 

“Went down the street,” said Meredith. “Looking at 



NATIONAL VELVET 


47 


a 




the rooks’ nests. Dropped a splodge. A rook dropped a 
splodge . . She was wiping her eye furiously with her 
dress. “Gummy,” she said. “S’gummy stuff . . 

“Get in under the tap,” said Velvet. “It’s lime. P’raps 
it’s quick lime.” 

Meredith ran blindly into the scullery holding her eye. 
The lime ran off at the touch of water. 

On the scullery ledge was a board with four objects on 
it like babies in long clothes, old bath towels, used tor 
keeping the best washing evenly damp. Mally cautiously 
undid the first. 

“It’s them,” she said, as though she had smelt a drain. 

“What?” said Meredith. 

“Muslin, ducky, for the Fair. Our muslins.” 

“Muslin !” said Meredith, stiff with offence. 

“Muslin,” said Mrs. Brown from behind with a soft and 
heavy certainty. “An’ your white woolly pullovers on 
top. You’ll be warm an’ you’ll be pretty. Get on 
upstairs and look over your stockings for holes.” 

“STOCKINGS! We’re not going to wear STOCK- 
INGS!” 

"Mrs. Brown sat down on the scullery chair. 

“We’ll get it all over,” she said. “I’ll run through it. 
You’ll wear your long black Christmas stockings, WITH 
suspenders, fastened to them calico belts I bought you 
for the Christmas dance. You’ll wear white petticoats 
that go with . . .” 

“PETTICOATS!” 

“Petticoats. That belongs to the dresses. (Or should.) 
You’ll wear your muslins, an’ your pullovers, an’ your 
black lace shoes . . .” 

“SHOES!” 

“If you get a shock over everything. Velvet, you’ll be 



48 "national velvet” 

ill an' you won't go at all. When you have muslins you 
have black shoes an' when you have black shoes you 
have stockings, or your heels rub . . (Edwina came 
through the street door.) "... an' you'll iron your 
muslins . . 

"MUSLINS r said Edwina, in exactly the same tone as 
the others. 

"We've been through all that,” said Malvolia. "Black 
shoes, black stockings, petticoats, suspenders, belts, 
pullovers. . . . P’raps you’d like to sit down an' rest 
D'wina? Go on, mother. We're to iron our muslins 
when?” 

"Father's at the bottom of this . . muttered Edwina. 

Mrs. Brown reached for a long-clothes baby and 
unrolled it. "Damp yet,” she said, trying it to her cheek. 
"Soaking. They'll stay damp till the evening in the 
shade. You can iron them after tea. Go on and look 
over the stockings.” 

Edwina, Malvolia, Meredith and Velvet passed through 
the little black door on to the stairs. 

The canaries were singing and shouting in the breeding 
cages and the new wooden cage, recently put up by 
Meredith hung insecurely and crooked from the nail she 
had borrowed. 

"You got it up,” said Velvet. 

"It's all soft stuff in that wall,” said Meredith. 

"Nail's going to come out,” said Mally — and they 
pulled out the drawers to look over the stockings. 

Edwina held up her calico petticoat and measured it 
against her willowy figure. "Dressed up in muslin 1” 
she muttered. 

"But I thought you liked dressing up,” said Mally. 

Edwina made no reply. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


49 


££ 


J? 


“Not dressed up enough is your trouble,” said Mally. 

“It’s time 1 had . . murmured Edwina, pre- 
occupied and searching in a drawer . . . “something 
. . . more . . and she found what she was looking 
for. 

“I’ll wear it over the muslin,” she said, holding up 
a tennis skirt of white flannel. “It’s a bit yellow. I’ve got 
a blue leather belt somewhere.” 

“You’ll make us look like a lot of dressed-up babies,” 
said Mally, half enviously. “And mother won’t let 
you.” 

“I’ll slip it on last thing,” said Edwina. “Mother 
doesn’t really care. It’s father. The top’ll look like 
quite a nice muslin shirt. I wish I could cut off the 
bottom.” 

“Well, that’s your trouble,” said Mally. “My good- 
ness, I wouldn’t dare.” 

“Where’s it kept?” said Velvet. 

“I had it in this bottom drawer,” said Edwina. Velvet 
turned and stared at her. After a pause she cleared her 
mind. “I mean the piebald,” she amended. 

“Oh, I meant to tell youl” said Edwina. “They’re 
going to raffle it to-morrow . . .” 

“We know,” said Mally. “Mi said so. And he’s 
given us five shillings to have a ticket each. Even 
Donald.” 

“Lent us,” said Velvet. 

“I meant lent us. Where do we get the tickets?” 

“They’ve got books at the Post Office. Books of 
tickets.” 

“Let’s go down and choose early ones.” 

Edwina stuffed her skirt back in the drawer. The 
stockings lay in tight black balls on the bed. 



50 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

“Come on, Meredith . . ” 

“You go. I’ll come in a minute.” 

Edwina, Mally and Velvet clattered down the stairs 
and left Meredith stooping beside a cage. 

Velvet put her head back in at the door. 

“Shall I get yours or will you get your own?” 

Meredith answered without looking round. “The 
female’s ill.” 

“Which is it?” said Velvet, coming nearer. 

“Africa,” said Meredith in a low voice. 

Africa had been a male until she had been discovered 
to be a female Now she lay in the palm of Meredith’s 
hand, cloaking her eye with a little sagging hood. 

“Is it the heat?” said Velvet, awed. 

“I don’t know,” said Merry. “Get me the brandy. 
It’s on the bottom shelf in the sideboard. In father’s 
flask.” 

While Velvet went for the brandy Merdith reached for 
her fountain-pen-filler, her left hand groping in a drawer, 
her eyes steady on the faint yellow bird. 

“Draw the blind,” she said to Velvet who had re- 
turned. Velvet drew the blind behind the roaring cages 
and all song dropped like a flag when the wind has failed. 
There was a sickroom silence and anxiety. 

“How much?” asked Velvet 

“One drop.” 

But Africa died. She died in the palm of Merry’s hand 
without a sound or a sigh or a movement. She seemed to 
miss a little breath and go smaller, and Velvet, startled, 
glanced round, as though a whiff of life had drifted out of 
Africa. 

“I can’t hold her now she’s dead,” said Merry, her 
teeth chattering. “Take her off my hand.” 



NATIONAL VELVET 


51 






“Tip her off/’ said Velvet, wincing too, 

“Goon. Take her I Fll scream.” 

Velvet took her and laid her with distaste on the bed- 
table by Merry’s bed. 

“Horrible/’ said Merry. “It’s a corpse. Poor little 
Africa. She’s gone away.” 

“I truthfully/’ said Velvet in a low voice, “thought 
I saw her go.” 

“How?” 

“When she went small. Just something.” 

“What?” 

“Air.” 

“That was her spirit/’ said Merry suddenly, looking 
at her intently. Velvet and Meredith stared at Africa. 

“I should like her just not to be here,” said Merry 
savagely. “I should like her to be all buried and finished.” 

“Perhaps Mi wifi.” 

“No, he won’t. He’ll say c Bury your own bird.’ ” 

“Mother will,” said Velvet. 

“Wifi she?” 

“Yes, come on. Leave it there.” Velvet flipped up the 
blind again and all the canaries cantered straight into 
open song. “Go on down to the Post Office an’ I’ll 
be down in a second.” 

“Who’s got the shilling?” 

“Mally has,” said Velvet. “They’ll be waiting for you. 
Don’t get my ticket for me!” 

“No ” Merry ran down the street. 

“Mother,” said Velvet, opening the scullery door. 
“Africa’s died.” 

Mrs. Brown turned. “Merry know?” 

“Yes, she died in her hand. Just now.” 

“Where’s Merry?” 



52 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

“Gone down to the Post Office. But she can’t touch 
Africa. She hates her dead. Could you bury her, do you 
think? She’s on the table by Merry’s bed.” 

“I’ll see to her,” said Mrs. Brown. “Bring her down.” 

“I can’t touch her either,” said Velvet. She’s . . 

Mrs. Brown looked at her. 

“You know when a thing’s dead . . said Velvet 
uselessly. Then after a pause she went slowly upstairs 
and brought down the dead bird in her hand. Mrs. 
Brown reached up to a shelf for a little cardboard box. 
She put Africa inside and shut the lid. Velvet raced down 
to the Post Office. 

In the sultry midday, with the Hullocks steaming 
above them, a little group of parcel-posters and stamp- 
buyers was jesting over the book-tickets. Edwina and 
her sisters stood in the shadow, their eyes grave and full 
of choosing. They were weighing the flashing, unequal 
importance of numbers. 

The blacksmith was having his joke. 

“Stand up, gentlemen,” he shouted, “the horse is 
yours ! Shilling a go for a mad piebald gelding. Or is it 
a stallion, Mr. Croom? Not clean gelded, eh? Thought 
as much. Mr. Ede done it on the cheap an’ left a 
chip.” 

“Not a bad thing to have a horse for a shilling,” sug- 
gested Mr. Croom. “You can always sell it for some- 
thing.” 

“Not so easy done,” said the blacksmith. “You got 
to feed it an’ lodge it meanwhile.” 

“Ede says it’ll ride quiet,” said Mr. Croom. “He says 
it will. Anybody know?” 

“I seen him ride it,” said a voice. “Went along quiet 
an’ dull. He had a baske* on his arm too. An’ he opened 



NATIONAL VELVET 


>5 


53 




a gate and let the basket fall. Never turned a hair.” 

“What’s the matter with it that he wants to raffle it, 
then?” 

“He can’t tie it up an’ he can’t keep it in. Jumps any 
wall. Go sailing over the moon if you’d let it. Kink 
in its mind about being tied up or shut in. Ede’s tired 
of catching it. Besides he’s afraid it’ll do a damage 
in the village. He bought it cheap in Lewes Market, but 
it’s no good to him.” 

Some tickets were bought but there was no rush on 
them. Edwina walked out of the corner to the counter. 

The raffle book was one to two hundred , got out in ink 
hurriedly by Mrs. Ede. 

“He’ll likely make his ten pound on him,” said Mr. 
Croom. “That’s more’n he paid for him at Lewes.” 

Solemnly the four girls lined against the counter and 
gazed at the book. 

“I’ve thought of forty-seven,” whispered Mally. 

“But did you make yourself or did it come?” 

“That’s what I don’t know.” 

“I’ve got ten . . . printed on my brain, large . . . 
in red letters,” said Edwina. 

Silence. 

“It’s like a visitation,” persisted Edwina in a whisper. 

Silence. 

“But perhaps I’m meant to avoid it,” she ended. 

Each girl stretched her mind and tried to tremble to 
the finger of God. 

“I’ll have 1 19 please,” said Velvet unexpectedly and 
firmly to the postmistress. 

She paid her shilling, and the other three watched her, 
envious and dismayed, 

“What did you . . began Mally. 



54 “national velvet” 

“I don’t want to talk about it/’ said Velvet, low, and 
walked out of the Post Office into the street. 

The others followed her with tickets in their hands. 

“We just took them anyhow,” said Edwina, rather 
cross. ‘*What’s the good of thinking l” 

“Have you got one for Donald?” 

“Number One.” 

“Well, there we are anyway,” said Mally. “Let’s go 
an’ pin them in the Bible. It’s dinner time.” 

Meredith instantly thought of Africa. As they walked 
back towards the house Africa was like a yellow shade 
upon her mind. Where did she lie? Would she be visible 
again to the eye or was she packed up for ever? Mrs. 
Brown called to them from the door. “Wash your 
hands quick,” she said, “it’s hot dinner.” 

“I’ll wash mine in the scullery,” said Merry and fled 
through the sitting-room. 

Velvet whispered to the others, “Africa’s dead.” 

Mrs. Brown turned off the scullery tap that Merry 
might hear what she said. “Your little bird’s buried,” 
she said. “Cage is all cleaned an’ I’ve put the cock in 
there. The greeny cock. But he’s got no food or water 
yet. Run up an’ see to him.” 

Merry turned with streaming eyes and kissed her. 
“I’ll rearrange them,” she choked, and went upstairs to 
the bedroom. 

They sat down to dinner without Mr. Brown or Mi, 
and Mrs. Brown brought in the joint. Merry joined 
them, a little flushed, but peaceful. 

A squeaking and bleating came muffled through the 
wall. 

“That’s the last,” said mother. “Father’ll be in soon.” 

“Row those sheep make,” said Mally. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


« 




55 


Edwina got up to get the red jelly from the sideboard. 

“We’ve taken five tickets, shilling tickets, for a raffle 
for the Fair tomorrow,” said Velvet. “They’re raffling 
that piebald.” 

“The piebald?” said Mrs. Brown, “Ede getting rid of 
it? Well I’m not surprised.” 

“But what’ll father . . .” 

“Time enough to worry when you get it,” said Mrs. 
Brown. “Got that jelly, D’wina? It’s there behind the 
pickles.” 

“Where’s Donald?” said Velvet. 

“Slep on. But he ought to be woke now. You get 
him. Velvet.” 

Velvet got up and went out by the yard door. She 
pressed the spaniels back with her foot as they struggled 
and changed places, smelling the joint. 

Jacob came wriggling and smiling round the wall. 
He was late in, having been down the village to the sea, 
watching the trippers unload from the charabancs. 

The whole day’s heat was shimmering in the yard. The 
splendour of the heat stood upright like a tank of water. 
Dust moved in it and midges poured up and down. 
Immediately she faced the yard Velvet went into a 
vision. The bones and stones and boxes and dogs of 
the yard dropped away below and she was mounted on 
a cliff beside the piebald, on the hip of a cliff over- 
looking the sea. The sea was pale and a ship swum 
up in a haze on the sky. The piebald stared like a lunatic 
at the cobbled wall which bound his field. Velvet 
choked as she stared with him, and saw the grasses 
wave at the foot of the cobbles. The wall gave way 
as they cleared it and sank together, the sea rushing 
up. A gull’s wing zipped and she saw the indigo shadow. 



56 “national velvet” 

and with her knees she felt the ribs spring in arcs from 
the horse’s spine . His boundless heart rushed into hers. 
The soles of her feet cramped against the impending 
waters. 

“I’ve woke 1” called Donald from the shade where he 
lay, on a mattress in Miss Ada’s unused cart — its shafts 
propped on an upright barrel. Velvet crossed the yard 
and opened the little door at the back of the cart. "Get 
up,” she said, but the child only stared half-awake at the 
sky. She took him by his bare legs and pulled. His 
shirt left his pants and began to turn up over his 
arms. 

"Can’t walk. Carry me,” he said. His teeth chattered. 
"I’m shivery,” he said, and bumped his heavy head on 
to her thin chest as she struggled with him. 

"That’s only sleep,” she said. "It’s dinner time. 
You’ve slept too long.” 

Merry opened the sitting room door. "Are you 
coming?” she called. 

"I’ve slept too long,” moaned Donald at the door, in 
Velvet’s arms. 

"Get down an’ walk,” said Mrs. Brown. 

"Slept too long,” he wailed self-pityingly. 

"A little tap-water an’ you’ll feel better,” said mother. 

She took him and he wept a little and was carried away. 
He reappeared in a few minutes bright and silky. "I 
slept too long,” he said in quite a different voice, 
engagingly, socially. 

"Yes, we heard,” said Mr. Brown who had come in. 
"Get up on your chair now. Here’s your plate.” 

"The meat’s sour,” said Donald instantly, putting 
his nose to his meat. 

"Poor lot those sheep,” said Mr. Brown. "It’s the 



NATIONAL VELVET 


57 


<c 




drought. Bit ribby, weren’t they. Mi.” 

“Dog bin racin’ ’em,” said Mi. 

“It’s sour,” said Donald, giving his plate a push. 

Mrs. Brown glanced over. “He’s got capers put on 
his. Take them off, D’wina.” 

“It’s you that’s sour,” said Dwina to him, getting up 
and stooping beside him. “Oh . . . Mother, he’s spat 
at me!” 

“Spit came out,” said Donald, a little anxiously. 

“Fractious,” said Mr. Brown. “Sit down, D’wina, and 
get on both. I heard Ede’s going to raffle that piebald 
animal that got loose.” 

There was no response. Everyone, thinking hard, ate 
silently. 

“You oughter take a ticket. Velvet,” said Mr, Brown 
genially. 

“We’ve all . . . we’ve all taken tickets,” said Velvet 
softly, unable to believe her ears. Mr. Brown’s face 
changed. He had meant to make a joke. 

“He’ll be meat if you get him,” he said after a pause, 
and not genially at all. 

Velvet’s face flushed faintly. 

“Cabbage is stringy,” said Donald, and created a 
diversion. 

“He’s possessed,” said Mr. Brown vexedly. The con- 
dition of the sheep had annoyed him. 

Edwina and Mally cleared the plates and brought in 
gooseberry fool. Velvet fetched the milk pudding from 
the oven. They started with fresh life on the fresh 
food. 

“Want you s’aftemoon. Mi,” said Mr, Brown. The 
girls grew tense, and waited, spoons still. 

“ ’Bout five,” said Mr. Brown, and the breath of 



NATIONAL VELVET 


53 


» 


anxiety was let out again, and the spoons moved 
on. 

The chairs were pushed in. “F’whatweave received 
. . . thank God l 9> they said as one voice and fled. 




B 


Chapter IV 

The piebald cropped in just such a field, on just such a 
Hullock as Velvet had dreamed. There was the haze, and 
the ship. Mi, Edwina, Malvolia, Meredith and Velvet 
stood in a row leaning against the cobbled wall. There 
was a long and watchful silence. The wild thyme smelt 
warm and looked pink. The sea lay below, not blue but 
dove-grey. The coping of the wall was hot and rough. 

“Stands marvellous,” said Mi at length. 

Another long appreciative silence. 

“See his bone . . .” said Mi. 

Mi made a click with the gap in his teeth and turned 
to look at Velvet. “What’s that number of yours?” 

“119.” 

“WeH there!” 

“What?” 

“You ought to have a horse I” 

The piebald looked up and saw them. Stared. Then 
cropped again. 

“Seems quiet/’ said Edwina. 

“Huh. No Imowing. Think he’s more than fifteen 
hands?” 

“Think he’s more,” said Velvet. 

“See his white eye?” 

They saw it. They saw everything. Their eyes, like 
birds’ eyes, flickered over his startling patches of black 
and white. He was white in bold seas, and black in 
continents, marked in such a way that when he moved 
his white shoulders and his white quarters flashed, and 

59 



60 “national velvet” 

his black body seemed to glide 

“Showy,” said Mi. 

Velvet climbed the wall into the field. 

“He’ll be off!” said Mally wamingly. 

Velvet went among the hot grasses towards him. She 
knew him. She had already ridden him in her dream. He 
cropped, head towards her, but watched her coming. 
She walked steadily and straight and began to talk in 
low tones. He raised his head and looked at her, as firmly 
as she looked at him. She paused. He walked several 
paces towards her with confidence. No quirk or tremor 
or snort of doubt. 

“See that I” said Mi, hanging against the wall. 

They saw Velvet pat him and run her hand slowly 
down his neck on to his shoulder. 

“She’ll be that upset now,” said Mi, “if she don’t get 
him.” 

Velvet moved away. The animal followed her, 
flashing and jaunty. He had a white mane, a long white 
tail, pink hooves, a sloping pastern, and he struck his 
feet out clean and hard as he walked. 

“Isn’t his neck thick?” said Edwina. 

“Bit,” said Mi. “Bin gelded late.” 

The piebald, whose desires were gone, had kept his 
pride. He walked after Velvet like a stocky prince. 
Thick-necked, muscular, short and proud. He left her a 
few paces from the wall, and stood looking, then turned 
and cropped quietly. 

“Gotter be back,” said Mi. 

Velvet hung a moment longer by the wall, then all 
five in silence turned downhill. There was a wild snort 
behind them and the thunder of feet. 

“He’s off!” said Mi, turning sharp. “It’s set him off!” 



“national velvet ” 61 

The piebald had his white tail raised and his head 
arched like a Persian drawing. He was galloping down 
the field towards the comer. 

“Stop ! Stand! He’s never going over that!” 

The ground had dropped away so sharply at the far 
corner that the original builder of the cobbled wall, to 
keep his coping straight, had heightened the wall itself. 
It was five foot two at the end of the field, with a fine 
downhill take off. The horse sailed over like a dappled 
flying boat. It was a double spring. As he was high in 
the air he saw also to his hind feet and drew them up 
sharply. 

“ . . . AND to spare,” said Mi quietly, nodding his 
head. “A horse like that’d win the National.” 

“You don’t mean it. Mi !” 

“Gets his hocks under. Got heart. Grand take off. 
Then when he’s up in the air he gives a kind of second 
hitch an’ his feet tuck up so he’s ony a body without 
legs. See him look before he took off? See his ears flitch 
forward and back again? You ony got to sit on him.” 

“Oh Mi, why don’t you ride?” 

“ . . . Got a nasty sort of look of Man-of-War too,” 
pursued Mi, unheeding. 

“Who was Man-of-War?” 

“Man-eatin’ stallion,” said Mi. 

“But a black and white horse like that doesn’t look like 
anything to do with a race.” 

“Ever hear of the Tetrarch?” 

“No.” 

“Looked like a rocking horse. Sorta dappled. Mr.Persse 
his trainer was. One mornin’ he was sitting eatin’ his 
egg an’ a stable lad rushed in an’ screamed out. ‘That 
coloured horse can beat anything I’ an’ rushed out again.” 



6 z “national velvet” 

“And what did he ■win?” 

“Didn’t win anything so marvellous because they ran 
him as a two-year-old. But he sired twenty-seven 
thousand pounds!” 

“Row’d you know so much, Mi?” 

“Used to read when I was up there,” Mi jerked his 
finger north, away from the sea. 

“Why did the stable boy rush in?” 

“’Cause he won, didn’t he, in the gallops in the 
morning.” 

“The piebald Tetrarch?” 

“He wasn’t piebald. Not even grey. He was coloured. 
Grey and roan and white. Mottled. They got him for 
a mascot. Just for a stable companion. And he brought 
them a fortune.” 

They walked down the slopes, wrapped in the eternal 
drama of the last being first. 

“An’ Mr. Persse” said Velvet, lifting her boy’s face 
to the sky, “he rushed out?” She wanted to sit again over 
the breakfast table with Mr. Atty Persse. (The heavenly, 
escaping past — ) 

“He rushed out,” said Mi, warming, “and he said: 
‘Where’s that goddam boy? I’ll wring his neck!” 

“Why?” 

“He had a feel the boy was right.” 

“Well, and . . .” 

“When you gotta good thing you keep it dark, don’t 
you? Not shout all down the passages and right through 
the kitchen an’ go back runnin’ an’ grinnin’ like a 
fathead to the stables.” 

“Mustn’t anybody know when you think you’re going 
to win a race?” 

“Money passes,” said Mi. “Fortunes. Thousands. 



“national velvet” 63 

Millions. It's like the City.” 

“Do they race a lot in the North?” asked Velvet. 

A landscape glittered behind her voice. There were 
icicles in it and savage fields of ice, great storms boiling 
over a flat countryside striped with white rails — a chess- 
board underneath a storm. Horses were stretched for ever 
at the gallop. Tiny men in silk were brave beyond bearing 
and sat on the horses like embryos with their knees in 
their mouths. The gorgeous names of horses were cried 
from mouth to mouth and circulated in a steam of fame. 
Lottery, The Hermit, the great mare Sceptre; the glorious 
ancestress Pocohontas, whose blood ran down like Time 
into her flying children; Easter Hero, the Lamb, that 
pony stallion. 

“Race?” said Mi. “All the time,” And Velvet knew 
she was right. 

“If I won that piebald,” said Velvet, “I might ride 
him in the Grand National myself.” 

“Girls can’t ride in that,” said Mi contemptuously. 

“Girls I” said Velvet, stopping still beside him so that 
they all drew up, “who’s to know I’m a girl?” She cupped 
her face in her two hands so that her straight hair was 
taken from it. 

“ ’Tisn’t your hair,” said Mi, and his eyes fell on her 
chest. “Flat’s a pancake,” he said. “You’d pass. There’s 
a changing room though.” 

“What’d you undress for?” 

“Change your day things for your silks.” 

“But you needn’t undress to your skin. You could 
keep the same vest.” 

“It could happen . . .” said Mi. “It never has. You 
got to get your horse first.” 

There was a silence as they walked. 



NATIONAL VELVET 




64 


“There he goes !” said Mi. The piebald was galloping 
below them, making as usual for the village. “Heavy 
galloper. Plunges as he goes.” 

“He’s lovely,” breathed Velvet, simply. They started 
to run. Below them they could see a sweeper at the 
entrance to the village wave his broom at the horse. 

The piebald leapt round him and galloped on. He 
disappeared between the first houses on the street. Soon 
he was out again, driven away by men and boys whom 
they could see standing by the sea wall, and headed up 
the curve of the Hullocks again, still galloping, his 
white mane and tail flying. 

“Carthorse and Arab in that animal,” said Mi, pausing 
to look. The piebald tired on the steep hill and slowed 
to a trot, then stood still. He looked over his shoulder 
at the village below him. 

“He’s homesick,” said Velvet suddenly. “He wants 
people. He hates it up there on that high field. Would 
he let me get near him?” 

“Never while he’s loose like that, an’ after he’s 
galloped,” said Mi. “Not worth the trouble. What 
about those muslins?” 

“Come along,” said Edwina. “We’ve got to get them 
done. Don’t keep staring at him. Velvet. He’ll never 
belong to any of us, and if he did the Lord knows what 
father’d say!” 

After tea they did the muslins. 

“Ironing’s lovely,” said Meredith. They had forgotten 
their antagonism to the frocks. The irons were hot and 
had polished shoes that slid over the steaming damp of 
the muslin surface. There were two irons and Meredith 
and Mally ironed while Velvet waited sitting by the 
cactus window. They used the supper table. The frail 



“national velvet” 6 5 

muslin hardened and blanched as the irons poked and 
slid, and Edwina made a racket in the room above 
looking for her blue leather belt. Father passed through 
the room in his gum boots. He had been hosing. 

“They want a steak. Over at Kingsworthy. Got to 
be there before breakfast,” he said. 

“Before breakfast!” 

“That’s what I said,” said father. The door shut. 

“What sort of a cook wants a steak before breakfast?” 
said Mally, shooting the nose of her iron in among the 
front pleats. 

“Man-eating cook,” said Edwina, standing in the 
doorway with her belt over her wrist. “Sucks ’em raw 
before she lights the stove.” 

“It’s Mr. Cellini’s, Kingsworthy,” said Velvet. 
“He’s got that chestnut we saw at the Show last 
year.” 

“Don’t fiddle with the cactus,” said Edwina. “The 
leaves break off.” 

Velvet folded her hands in her lap. “Sir Pericles,” 
said Velvet. “He was called Sir Pericles, that chestnut. 
Won the novice’s jumping.” 

“I’ll go with the steak,” said Meredith. “I’d love to. 
I’ll go just as early as I wake. I’ll creep out and get 
Miss Ada. Mother could leave the steak on the table 
overnight.” 

“Why couldn’t we take it this evening?” 

“Then they think it’s to-day’s meat.” 

“But it will be, anyway !” 

“Yes, but they think it’s fresher if it comes to- 
morrow.” 

“There !” Mally took her muslin dress and held it up 
by the puff sleeves. 



66 “national velvet” 

It was stiff and fresh with ironing and almost stood 
by itself. 

“It’s like a paper bag,” said Velvet. “Seems a pity 
to wear it. D’you want to start, Edwina, or shall I 
start mine?” 

“I’m only wearing the top of mine. I’ve cut it off.” 

“Gosh! You have ? You’ve been an’ cut it?” 

All the three heads were raised towards Edwina as 
she took this step into the future. They contemplated 
her for a second then accepted her. Velvet got up and 
began to unroll her frock and lay it out. 

“Ay . . . Merry. Look out! What’s that . . . it’s 
blood I” 

Meredith shot one hand to her face. “It’s my nose,” 
she cried from under her hand. 

“It’s dropped on the muslin. Get me a rag !” 

“Here’s the ironing duster! Hold your head off the 
dresses 1 Lie down on the cold scullery floor. It’s brick.” 

Donald appeared in the doorway from the street and 
watched Meredith as she ran into the scullery holding 
the duster to her face. 

“She hurt herself?” he asked. 

“Her nose is bleeding,” said Velvet. 

“I laugh when my nose bleeds,” said Donald. 

“Your nose hasn’t ever bled,” said Velvet briefly. 

“I would laugh if it did,” said Donald, and went. 

“Merry marked her muslin?” said Mrs. Brown co min g 
in from the scullery. 

“Great drop,” said Mally. 

“Put it under cold water,” said Mrs. Brown. “Not a 
touch of soap an’ no hot. It sets it. It’s Africa’s made 
her nose bleed.” 

“I’ll go with the steak to-morrow then,” said Velvet. 



NATIONAL VELVET” 


6 ? 


“There’s the Fair an’ all. She better keep still,” 

“What steak’s that?” 

“Father said Air. Cellini wanted a steak before 
breakfast.” 

“Funny time,” said Airs. Brown. 

“I’d like to go anyway,” said Velvet. “I might see 
the chestnut.” 

That night, before the Fair, they went to bed early. 

‘’"Africa!” said Meredith, wildly and suddenly in the 
middle of the night. And slept again. 



B 


Chapter V 

Velvet’s dreams were blowing about the bed. They 
were made of cloud but had the shapes of horses. Some- 
times she dreamt of bits as women dream of jewellery. 
Snaffles and straights and pelhams and twisted pelhamss 
were hanging, jointed and still in the shadows of a stable, 
and above them went up the straight damp oiled lines! of 
leathers and cheek straps. The weight of a shining bit 
and the delicacy of the leathery above it was what she 
adored. Sometimes she walked down an endless cool 
alley in summer, by the side of the gutter in the old red- 
brick floor. On her left and right were open stalls made 
of dark wood and the buttocks of the bay horses stone 
like mahogany all the way down. The horses turned 
their heads to look at her as she walked. They had tlack 
manes hanging like silk as the thick necks turned. 
These dreams blew and played round her bed in the light 
and the early hours of the morning. 

She got up while the sisters were sleeping and fll the 
room was full of book-muslin and canaries sbging. 
“How they can sleep I . . she said wonderinglywhen 
she became aware of the canaries singing so macty. All 
the sisters lay dreaming of horses. The room seerred full 
of the shapes of horses. There was almost a dreari-smell 
of stables. As she dressed they were stirring, hifting 
and tossing in white heaps beneath their cott>n bed- 
spreads. The canaries screamed in a long yellow! 
scream, and grew madder. Then Velvet left: tie room| 
and softly shut the door and passed down into the 

68 



NATIONAL VELVET 


69 


ct 




silence of the cupboard-stairway. 

In her striped cotton dress with a cardigan over it she 
picked up the parcel of steak that had been left on the 
kitchen table and drank the glass of milk with a playing 
card on the top of it that Mrs. Brown had left her over- 
night. Then she got a half packet of milk chocolate 
from the string drawer, and went out to saddle Miss 
Ada. 

In the brilliance of a very early summer morning they 
went off together. Miss Ada’s stomach rumbling with 
hunger. Velvet fed her from a bag of oats she had 
brought with her up on the top of the hill. There were 
spiders’ webs stretched everywhere across the gorse bushes. 

Coming down over the rolling grass above Kings- 
worthy, Velvet could see the feathery garden looking like 
tropics asleep down below. Old Mr. Cellini by a miracle 
grew palms and bananas and mimosa in his. Miss Ada 
went stabbing and sliding down the steep hillside, hating 
the descent, switching her tail with vexation. 

Velvet tied Miss Ada to the fence, climbed it and crept 
through the spiny undergrowth into the foreign garden. 
There was not a sound. Not a gardener was about. The 
grass like moss, spongy with dew so that each foot sank 
in and made a black print which filled with water. Then 
she looked up and saw that the old gentleman had been 
looking at her all the time. 

He had on a squarish hat and never took his eyes off 
her. He was standing by a tree. Velvet’s feet went down 
in the moss as she stood. His queer hat was wet, and 
there was dew on the shoulders of his ancient black frock- 
coat which buttoned up to the neck; he looked like some- 
one who had been out all the night. 

Raising one black-coated arm he rubbed his lips as 



NATIONAL VELVET 


1 ° 


cc 




though they were stiff, and she could see how frail he 
was, unsteady, wet. 

“What have you come to do?” he said in a very low 
voice. 

“Sir?” 

He moved a step forwards and stumbled. 

“Are you staying? Going up to the house?” 

“The house.” 

“Stay here,” he said, in an urgent tone which broke. 

Velvet dropped her own eyes to her parcel, for she 
knew he was looking at her and how his eyeballs shone 
round his eyes. 

“How did you come?” (at last). She looked up. 
There was something transparent about his trembling 
face. 

“On our pony,” she said. “I rode. She's tied to the 
fence. There's some meat here for the cook, to leave at 
the back door.” 

“Do you like ponies?” said the rusty voice. 

“Oh . . . yes. We've only the one.” 

“Better see mine,” said the old gentleman in a different 
tone. 

He moved towards her, and as they walked he rested 
one hand on her shoulder. They walked till they came 
to the open lawns and passed below some fancy bushes. 

He stopped. And Velvet stopped. 

“ . . . if there was anything you wanted very much,” 
he said, as though to himself. 

Velvet said nothing. She did not think it was a 
question. 

“I'm very much too old,” said the old gentleman. 
“Too old. What did you say you’d brought?” 

“Meat,” said Velvet. “Rump.” 



NATIONAL VELVET 


« 


99 


7 * 


“Meat/* said the old gentleman. “I shan’t want it. 
Let’s see it.” 

Velvet pulled the dank parcel out of her bag. 

“Throw it away,” said the old gentleman, and threw 
it into a bush. 

They walked on a few paces. 

Something struck her on the hip as she walked. It 
was when his coat swung out. He looked down too, and 
unbuttoned his coat and slowly took it off. Without a 
word he hung it over his arm, and they walked on again, 
he in his black hat and black waistcoat and shirt-sleeves. 

“Going to the stables,” said he. “Why, are you fond 
of horses?” 

There was something about him that made Velvet 
feel he was going to say goodbye to her. She fancied 
he was going to be carried up to Heaven like Elisha. 

“Horses,” he said. “Did you say you had horses?” 

“Only an old pony, sir.” 

“All my life I’ve had horses. Stables full of them. 
You like ’em?” 

“I’ve seen your chestnut,” said Velvet. “Sir Pericles. 
I seen him jump.” 

“I wish he was yours, then,” said the old gentleman, 
suddenly and heartily. “You said you rode?” 

“We’ve on’y got Miss Ada. The pony. She’s old.” 

“Huh!” 

“Not so much old” said Velvet hurriedly. “She’s 
obstinate.” 

He stopped again. 

“Would you tell me what you want most in the 
world? . . . would you tell me that?” 

He was looking at her. 

“Horses,” she said. “Sir.” 



72 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

“To ride on? To own for yourself?” 

He was still looking at her, as though he expected 
more. 

“I tell myself stories about horses,” she went on, 
desperately fishing at her shy desires. “Then I can dream 
about them. Now I dream about them every night. I 
want to be a famous rider, I should like to carry despatches, 
I should like to get a first at Olympia, I should like to ride 
in a great race, I should like to have so many horses that 
1 could walk down between the two rows of loose boxes 
and ride what I chose. I would have them all under 
fifteen hands, I like chestnuts best, but bays are lovely 
too, but I don’t like blacks.” 

She ran out the words and caught her breath and 
stopped. 

At the other end of the golden bushes the gardener’s 
lad passed in the lit, green gap between two rhododen- 
dron clumps with a bodge on his arm. The old gentleman 
called to him. Then he walked onwards across the grass 
and Velvet and the gardener’s boy followed after. They 
neared a low building of old brick with a square cobbled 
yard outside it. The three passed in under the arched 
doorway. 

“Five,” said the old gentleman. “These are my little 
horses. I like little ones too,” He opened the gate of 
the first loose box and a slender chestnut turned slowly 
towards him. It had a fine, artistic head, like horses 
which snort in ancient battles in Greece. 

“Shake hands. Sir Pericles,” said the old gentleman, 
and the little chestnut bent its knee and lifted a slender 
foreleg a few inches from the ground. 

“But Fve no sugar,” said the old gentleman. “You 
must do your tricks for love today.” 



<c NATIONAL VELVET" 73 

He closed the door of the loose box. 

In the next box was a grey mare. 

“She was a polo pony" he said, “belonged to my 
son." He still wore his hat, black waistcoat, and shirt 
sleeves. He looked at the gardener’s boy. “I need 
not have bothered you," he said. “Of course the grooms 
are up." But the gardener’s boy, not getting a direct 
order, followed them gently in the shadow of the 
stables. 

The grey mare had the snowy grey coat of the brink 
of age. All the blue and dapple had gone out of her, 
and her eyes burnt black and kind in her white face. 
When she had sniffed the old gentleman she turned her 
back on him. She did not care for stable-talk. 

In the next loose box was a small pony, slim and 
strong, like a miniature horse. He had a sour, suspicious 
pony face. There were two more loose boxes to come 
and after that a gap in the stables. Far down the corridor 
between the boxes Velvet could see where the big horses 
stood. Hunters and carriage horses and cart horses. 

The gardener’s boy never stirred. The old gentleman 
seemed suddenly tired and still. 

He moved and pulled a piece of paper from the pocket 
of his waistcoat. “Get me a chair," he said very loud. 
But before the boy could move a groom came running 
swiftly with a stable chair. 

The old gentleman sat down and wrote. Then he 
looked up. 

“What’s your name?" he said and looked at Velvet. 

“Velvet Brown," said Velvet. 

“Velvet Brown," he said and tapped his pencil on 
his blue cheek. Then wrote it down. “Sign at the bottom, 
boy," he said to the gardener’s boy, and the boy knelt 



74 “national velvet” 

down and wrote his careful name. “Now you sign too/* 
he said to the groom. 

The old gentleman rose and Velvet followed him out 
into the sunlight of the yard. “Take that paper,” he 
said to her, “and you stay there,” and he walked from 
her with his coat on his arm. 

He blew himself to smithereens just round the corner. 
Velvet never went to look. The grooms came running. 

The warm of the brick in the yard was all she had 
to hold on to. She sat on it and listened to the calls 
and exclamations. “Gone up to Heaven, Elisha,” she 
thought, and looked up into the sky. She would like to 
have seen him rising, sweet and sound and happy. 

In the paper in her hand she read that five of his 
horses belonged to her. 

Taking the paper, avoiding the running and the calling 
of the household, she crept back through the garden 
to Miss Ada. When she got home she could not say 
what had happened, but cried and trembled and was put 
to bed and slept for hours under the golden screams 
of the canaries. At four o’clock Mally burst in and 
cried: 

“They’ve drawn! They’ve drawn! We’ve got the 
piebald!” 

<c Whose ticket?” said Velvet faintly. 

“Yours, oh yours. Are you ill?” 

“Mr. Cellini’s dead,” whispered Velvet. “Just round 
the corner 1” 

Mally stood transfixed to the floor. “They’re bringing 
the piebald home,” she said staring. She could not be 
bothered by the death of Mr. Cellini. 

Hearing a sound she ran to the window. 

“It’s here, it’s down at the very door!” she called. 



“national velvet” 75 

“Get mother,” said Velvet, who could not move 
because the room was swaying. 

lj£ Jc 5fC 5*C 

Velvet went to Mr. Cellini’s funeral. As an heiress. 
She did not bury him in her heart till then. The nights 
before she had seen him only smashed, but living. Seen 
his face with its looks. Could a look be smashed? That 
night before the funeral, the horses in her dreams 
galloped downhill. By the head down, like rockets. 
But when she had been to his funeral and walked in her 
winter black tarpaulin mackintosh, among his relations, 
her eyes like sad lights in her head and her bony teeth, 
veiled in gold, like a war chief’s trophy across her thin 
face, then she knew he was still and folded and she could 
turn to the horses. 

Mr. Brown was quite agreeable to the horses. It was 
all in the local papers, and lovely pictures of the girls 
looking like three gazelles. And Velvet? Velvet looking 
like Dante when he was a little girl. 

Mr. Brown saw it was good for trade. “You’ll be 
wanting a field,” he said. 

“But they’ve been kept in,” said Velvet. 

“Keep them in you won’t, my girl. And it’s summer.” 

“But next winter?” said Velvet. 

“Next winter’ll take care of itself.” 

There were six horses now. 

The strange piebald, won at the Fair, had been put 
that night by Mi into the Tablet Gully. In this narrow 
valley there was a tablet to a dead man, but the name 
had gone. The tablet said he died gathering moss in the 
snow, overwhelmed in a snowstorm and fallen down a 
mountain. 



76 “ NATIONAL VELVET^ 

In all the ninety miles of the Hullocks there was no 
moss; there was no snow; no mountains to fall down, but 
only the curving breasts of hillsides. Still the legend of 
the nameless man remained intact, and here the piebald 
grazed, flashing like black and ivory in the dapple of the 
valley. He was six miles from the village and he had not 
yet attempted to break loose. He could not see a chimney 
or a roof from where he cropped, nor hear any sound 
but the sheep who filled his valley. The food was new 
to him, richer than in the high burnt-up fields above the 
village, and his attention was caught, and his nostalgia 
for the time assuaged. 

Now that the excitement in the village had blown out, 
Mr. Brown began, and well he might, to fuss about 
expense. 

“A man who leaves a butcher’s daughter five horses 
might leave her some money to keep them with,” he said. 

“Why do you suppose he left them to yoju. Velvet?” 
asked Mally for the hundredth time. 

Velvet looked at the table and said, “It was a joke he 
made with himself at the last minute.” 

“Just leave her,” said Mrs. Brown calmly. “Don’t 
keep on asking, Malvolia.” 

* * * * 

It was the green summer dawn of the day the horses 
were due to arrive. Velvet woke up and she could hear 
the birds’ feet walking up and down on the roof. 

“Swi . . . ipe !” said one canary in a very loud voice, 
and all the sisters woke. 

At breakfast Velvet sat back in her chair, a little 
yellow. 

“Chew your toast well,” said Mrs. Brown, “and don’t 



“national velvet” 77 

drink your milk. It’ll lay loose.” 

“Is it eleven or half past that they’re coming?” asked 
Edwina. 

“Don’t talk about it,” said Airs. Brown. “Leave the 
subject alone.” Velvet faintly chewed. 

At nine she had a strong drink of peppermint, and 
some whitish powder of her mother’s choosing. Sitting 
close to the kitchen stove she slowly recovered. Every 
now and then the sisters looked in at the door at her 
anxiously. 

“Shall I ever grow out of it, mother?” asked Velvet 
once. 

“Yes,” said Mrs. Brown, like a palmist, “when you’re 
sixteen.” 

The room, crammed with furniture, was faintly green 
as the light struck through the cactus window. The 
cactus pots were arranged on glass shelves. They were 
well cared for, of different sorts, and six of them were in 
peculiar flower. The street door was shut, the yard door 
was open. On one side of the room the mahogany side- 
board stretched from wall to wall, with its bottles of 
vinegar, old decanters, a set of green wineglasses, salts, 
peppers, Ai and Demon sauces, and in the middle the 
Sheffield dish cover, 30 inches long, that covered the 
joint on Sundays. The Albert lamp, used at night in 
winter, stood on a table by itself. The dinner table, 
round, covered with a Paisley cloth, filled the centre of 
the room. The window on the street was blocked with 
cineraria. Motes of blue from the flowers floated on the 
belly of the dish cover. 

Velvet held the shell-box of paper horses in her hand, 
like something to which she was being disloyal. 

All the girls had on striped cotton frocks too big for 



78 “national velvet” 

their thin bodies. Edwina and Malvolia had belted theirs 
in with leather belts bought in the village, but the 
dresses of Meredith and Velvet hung loose on them. 

“Half the village outside in the street,” said Mr. Brown 
complacently, coming in with his pipe out of the sunlight. 
“Seems to have got round.” 

“Not surprising,” said Mrs. Brown, “with three 
reporters coming here.” 

“This family’s cut out for the newspapers,” said Mr. 
Brown, putting his arm on her vast shoulder. Mrs. 
Brown said nothing. 

“Got your strong knickers on?” said Mrs. Brown 
presently. 

“Yes,” said Velvet. 

“What’s that for?” said Mr. Brown. “She’s not going 
to ride this string of racers she’s getting.” 

“They’re hacks. Little hacks,” said Velvet. 

Mrs. Brown rose. 

“See to Donald,” she said. “He’s frittering his time.” 
But at that moment, as they fidgeted, the door opened 
and Donald walked in, all buttoned up and shining and 
his brow as black as thunder. 

“Who’s buttoned you?” asked Mrs. Brown. 

“Mi’s buttoned me,” said Donald savagely. 

“Huh!” said Mrs. Brown. 

They measured each other. 

“You forgot me,” said Donald. 

Mrs. Brown said nothing. Donald strutted down the 
room and out into the yard. 

“Seems upset,” said Mr. Brown. 

Mi came in. 

“I’U thank you not to button him again,” said Mrs. 
Brown. 



“national velvet” 79 

“Any sign of the horses?” said Mr. Brown. 

“Early yet,” said Ali, “but the whole village is waiting 
on the Green.” 

“Most of 3 em 3 s outside,” said Mr. Brown motioning 
to the flower-window with his pie. The flower-window 
was black with faces. “Ask Mr. Croom in.” 

Mi opened the door and spoke through the crack of it. 
Mr. Croom, the grocer, came in. 

“Wonderful,” said Mr. Croom, “Velvet gettin 3 them 
horses.” 

Mr. Brown got up and looked at his watch, which lay 
under a tumbler on the sideboard. “Getting on time,” 
he said, and Velvet, sitting at the stove, felt suddenly 
light and warm. 

“Whur’s the little chap?” said Mr. Croom, “Donald?” 

“Fm here,” said Donald through the half-open yard 
door. 

“I got silver an > gold for you,” said Mr. Croom. 

“More’n he deserves,” said Mrs. Brown. 

Donald came in brightly with his sweet smile. 

“Silver an 3 gold , 33 said Mr. Croom, holding out a net 
bag full of chocolate coins covered in silver and gold 
paper. “Foreign , 33 he said, “Dutch stuff. But Donald 
won’t care.” 

“Say thank you , 33 said Mr. Brown. 

“Thank you,” said Donald, with his heart in his face. 
He took the bag and wandered away. 

“Fine chap , 33 said Mr. Croom. 

“Cup of coffee, Mr. Croom ? 33 said Mrs. Brown. 

“If you 3 re making any . 33 Mr. Croom peered through 
the street window. “Quite a stir in the village.” 

“Yes,” said Mr. Brown. 

“ ’Strordinary thing,” said Mr. Croom. “Like a tale.” 



80 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

“Yes,” said Mr. Brown again. “Took to Velvet, I 
suppose.” 

“Ever seen him before. Velvet?” said Mr. Croom. 

“Yes,” said Velvet faintly. “Once. At the Lingdown 
Horse Show.” 

“Better leave her,” said Mrs. Brown. “Turns her 
stomach.” 

“Well, well . . .” said Mr. Croom regretfully. 
“Yes.” 

Mr. Cellini swam across the ceiling, frailer than 
memory, like a cobweb. 

Mr. Brown rose again and looked at his watch on the 
sideboard. “Should be here,” he said. 

“Where’s your gold and silver bag?” said Velvet 
suddenly to Donald. 

“I put it away,” said Donald. 

“Don’t you wan’t it?” said Mr. Croom, hurt. 

“No,” said Donald. “I might want it some day.” 

“What you got there instead?” 

“It’s my spit bottle,” said Donald, holding up a 
medicine bottle on a string. 

He walked a little further into the room and dangled 
the bottle, showing a little viscous fluid in the bottom. 
“That’s my spit,” he said. 

“He’s collecting his spit,” said Velvet. 

Donald applied his mouth at the top and with difficulty 
dribbled a little more spit into the neck. 

“D’you let him do those sort o’ things?” said Mr. 
Brown to Mis. Brown. 

“Take it outside,” said Mrs. Brown. “Here’s your 
coffee. Mi. Croom.” 

Edwina, Malvolia and Meredith burst the street door 
open with the crowd behind their shoulders. “Over the 



“national velvet” 8i 

hill! You can see them!” Meredith panted, and all 
three disappeared. 

Mrs. Brown picked up Donald, his spit bottle swinging. 
“Put your cardigan on,” she said to Velvet. “Keep warm 
an* you’ll be all right.” 

They all went out, the crowd following them, and 
turned up the chalk road. 

“Where’s Mi?” said Velvet suddenly. 

“Got a half dozen sheep to fetch,” said Mr. Brown. 
“Be here any minute.” 

“Poor Mi,” said Velvet, and walked on, wrapt with 
happiness. 

Over the brow of the hill five horses moved down 
towards them. 

“Ther’s three grooms. My word, ther’s three of 
them,” said Mally, who had joined the procession. The 
grooms were walking the horses, two horses to a groom, 
then one alone at the back. As they reached the foot 
of the grass slope and stepped on to the flashing chalky 
road in the sun, the black crepe could be seen on the 
arm of each walking groom. They were bowler-hatted, 
and round each bowler a band of crepe was tied. The 
head groom, walking in front with the grey mare and 
Sir Pericles, had a rosy face and a fine black coat of good 
cloth. The others wore dark grey. 

The horses were halted at the entrance to the village. 

The head groom produced a slip of paper. “Miss 
Velvet Brown?” he asked. Mr. Brown stepped forward. 
Velvet close behind. Her thin face shone, smile alight, 
frock ballooned under cardigan, legs bare and scratched. 
“I’m Velvet,” she said. 

She walked up to Sir Pericles, transfigured, touched him 
gently on his neck, took the rein from the groom. 



82 “national velvet” 

“We’ll go down to the house/* she said softly. ‘Til 
lead this one home.** 

“Better let me/* said the groom. Velvet stared at him, 
shook her head, and walked on leading the shining 
horse. 

“Daft today/* said Mr. Brown to the groom. 

“Mind she don’t let him go then/* said the groom. 

The procession went on. Velvet first with her horse, 
Mr. Brown at her elbow, the horses and the village people 
following. “Keep the boys back! Don’t let them 
frighten the horses I” said the old head groom. 

“Keep back there/* said Mr. Croom mildly, and the 
boys ran and skipped. Edwina and Malvolia and Meredith 
went ahead, turning to look over their shoulders. 

“Better stop !** called Edwina. 

The procession drew up and halted as it reached the 
street. Half a dozen sheep had arrived unexpectedly 
from a farm for the slaughter-house, and Mi was striving 
to get the last three in. He ran* about in his Sunday 
clothes, put on for the arrival of the horses. They could 
hear him cursing. The three sheep skipped, butted and 
ran. “Yer poor slut I” yelled Mi to the last one, bound- 
ing like a hare to keep it out of the main road. He 
turned it, and the last of the sheep went dingily behind 
the great wooden door. With the clatter of delicate 
feet on brick the horses moved on till they reached the 
sunny square before the cottage. 

Donald was swinging his bottle before the door. He 
had not kept up with the procession. 

“Keep that child in!” called Mr. Brown. But Donald 
swung his bottle gently, and Mrs. Brown did no more 
than lay a finger on his head. 

The horses were drawn up facing the doorway and 



NATIONAL VELVET 


» 


« 


85 


the second groom took over the bunch of leather reins. 
They ran like soft straps of silk over his fingers, narrow, 
polished, and flexible. 

“Better take this into the house and read it over,” 
suggested the head groom to Mr. Brown, handing him 
a typewritten sheet. 

Mr. Brown glanced at it and called to Velvet. Together 
they went in at the door and sat down at the little fern 
table inside. Mr. Brown pushed the ferns gently to 
one side and laid out the sheet. 


“One chestnut gelding. 14 hands. Seven years 
old, Sir Pericles. 1 snaffle bit, bridle, noseband and 
standing martingale. 1 Ambrose saddle, leathers 
and stirrups. 1 pair webbing girths.” 

And underneath this Velvet wrote “Velvet 
Brown.” 

“One grey polo pony. Mare, ij hands. Nine 
years old. Mrs. Jams. 1 straight pelham, etc. . . . 
martingale . . . soft saddle and sewn girths.” 

And underneath Velvet wrote “Velvet Brown.” 

“1 child’s pony, chestnut. 12.2 hands. Gelding. 
George. Snaffle bit and double bit. Soft saddle and 
sewn girths, etc” 

And Velvet wrote “Velvet Brown.” 

“1 cob pony, for hacking or cart. 13.3 hands, dark 
bay gelding. Fancy. 1 double bit, etc . . . old 
leather saddle, and harness for cart.” 

“Velvet Brown.” 

“1 Dartmoor filly, two years old, unbroken. 
11 hands. Halter only. Angelina .” 

“Velvet Brown.” 



84 “national velvet” 

When Velvet had written her name for the fifth time, 
carefully, in ink, and with her breath held tight, her 
father touched her arm, and they both returned to the 
sunlight of the street. Mr. Brown gave the paper to the 
head groom. 

“What are you doing with them straight away?” said 
the groom. 

“Turning them into a field of mine,” said Mr. Brown. 

The groom hesitated. “Warm weather, but they’ve 
none on ’em been out at night yet. Won’t hurt the little 
filly.” 

“They’ll have to be out now,” said Mr. Brown, with 
a slight rise of voice, as though he were being dictated to. 

“Will they eat sugar?” said Mally. 

“All except the grey mare,” said the groom. “She 
likes apple/’ 

Mally brought sugar out of her cotton pocket. Mere* 
dith went for an apple. 

“Shall you be selling them, sir?” said the groom, a 
little hesitatingly to Mr. Brown. 

“They’re mine!” said Velvet suddenly. 

“We’ve not decided anything,” said Mr. Brown. 
Velvet’s soul became several sizes too large for her, her 
mouth opened, and she struggled with speech. Mrs. 
Brown’s hand fell on her shoulder, and her soul sank back 
to its bed. 

“I suppose you are fixed up with a man?” said the head 
groom tentatively. “I have a place myself, but . . .” he 
made a gesture towards the other two grooms. 

“I’m a butcher,” said Mr. Brown firmly. “My girl 
goes and gets herself five horses. Five ! We’ve seven all 
told, with that piebald. If she has to have horses she 
must look after ’em. We’ve fields in plenty, and there’s 



NATIONAL VELVET 


» 


tt 


85 


oats in the shed, and Fve four girls all of an age to look 
after horses. Beyond that I won't go. I'll have no fancy 
stables here. I'm a plain man and a butcher, and we've 
got to live." 

“Eh, yes," said the little old rosy head groom. “Shall 
we unsaddle them and turn them into the field for 
you?" 

“Saddles'll have to go in the slaughter house," said Mr. 
Brown. “Through with them sheep yet?" he said to 
Mi. 

“Ain't begun," said Mi. 

“Well then, you can put the saddles in the sun here on 
the wood rail, and lead 'em to the field in the bridles. 
Head collars they have on 'em. P'raps you'd better leave 
the bridles here." 

The head groom went up to the girths of Sir Pericles, 
but Velvet's thin hand was on his arm. “I'm going to try 
them all first,” she said. 

Mr. Brown heard what she said, though he made no 
sign. He looked at Donald, then at his wife. She made no 
sign either. 

“Fetch your gold sweets now!" said Mr. Brown 
heavily and with unreality to Donald, tweaking his chin, 
and retired from the whole scene towards the slaughter- 
house. 

“Let's go round to the field," said Velvet, with con- 
fidence, to the groom. 

“Wait a bit," said Mrs. Brown. “You'll have a little 
something first. Edwina, there's that bottle of port. 
Bring it out. And glasses. Mr. Croom you'll join too, a 
drop won’t do anybody any harm." 

Edwina and Mally brought out the fern table, a tin one, 
the sacred table that was never moved. 



86 “national velvet” 

Velvet as the heroine, Edwina as the eldest, the head 
groom as the guest, and Mrs. Brown as the hostess sat 
down at the table and sipped a sip from the thick glasses 
of port. The village stood round at a respectful distance, 
and Mally and Meredith walked among the horses. Sir 
Pericles drooped his neck and nuzzled by the head 
groom’s pockets. The second grooms shared a glass 
between them. Then they all went up to the field to try 
the horses. 

Velvet mounted Sir Pericles. She had ridden Miss Ada 
for eight years, hopped her over bits of brushwood and 
gorse-bushes, and trotted her round at the local gym- 
khana. Once she had ridden a black pony belonging to 
the farmer at Pendean. She had a natural seat, and her 
bony hands gathered up the reins in a tender way. But 
she had never yet felt reins that had a trained mouth at the 
end of them, and, as she cantered up the slope of the 
sunny field with the brow of the hill and the height of the 
sky in front of her. Sir Pericles taught her in three minutes 
what she had not known existed. Her scraggy, childish 
fingers obtained results at a pressure. The living canter 
bent to right or left at her touch. He handed her the 
glory of command. 

When she slid to the ground by the side of the head 
groom she was speechless, and leant her forehead for a 
second on the horse’s flank. 

“You ride him a treat,” said the groom. “You done a 
bit of riding.” 

“Never ridden anything but her old pony,” said Mi, 
his hair rising in pride. 

“The mare here’s harder,” said the groom. “Excitable, 
and kind of tough.” 

He shot Velvet’s light body and cotton frock into this 



“national velvet” 87 

second saddle. Her sockless feet, leather-shod, nosed for 
the stirrups. The groom shortened the leathers till they 
would go no more, and then tied knots in them. Mrs. 
James, the mare, broke into a sweat at once. She flirted 
her ears wildly back and forwards, curved her grey neck, 
shook her bit, gave backward glances with her black eyes, 
like polished stones in her pale face. 

“Mind ! She don’t start straight! She’ll leap as she 
starts, and then she’ll settle. She was Mr. Frank’s polo 
pony an’ she’s not really nervous but she’s keen.” 

There was scum on the mare’s neck already, and the 
reins carved it off on to the leather as she shook her head. 
Mrs. Brown, holding Donald by the wall, watched 
quietly. Edwina, Mally and Merry sat on the gate. 

“Hang on!” said the groom, and let go. Mrs. James, 
with a tremendous leap, started up the field. Her nostrils 
were distended, her ears pricked with alarm. She 
thought she carried a ghost. She could not feel anything 
on her back, yet her mouth was held. Velvet, whose 
hand had slipped down to the pommel of the saddle at the 
first leap, settled more steadily and lifted her hand to the 
reins. Mrs. James snorted as she cantered, like a single- 
cylindered car. She was not difficult to ride once the 
first start had been weathered. They rounded the field 
together; then Velvet got up on the pony George. 
George threw her as soon as her cotton frock touched his 
back. 

“Get up again,” said the head groom and held the 
pony tighter. 

“Walk him, walk him,” said the groom warningly. 
“Trot before you canter or he’ll buck I” 

George stuck his head out in an ugly line, and Velvet 
tried gently to haul him in. The whites of his eyes 


G 



88 “national velvet” 

gleamed and his nose curled. He snatched at the bit 
when he felt her pressure and stretched his neck im- 
patiently. Velvet’s lips could not tighten, there was too 
much gold; but her eyes shone. She twirled the ends of 
the long reins and caught him hard, first on one shoulder, 
then on the other. 

“She’ll be off!” said Edwina. 

“Not she I” said Mi. “It’s what he’s asking for.” 

George curved his neck and flirted archly with his bit, 
then trotted smartly back to the gate. Velvet dismounted 
and turned to Fancy, the cob. 

Fancy was no faster than Miss Ada, and somewhat her 
build. He trotted round the field sedately. 

“That’s the lot,” said the groom. “The filly’s not 
broke.” 

“I must try George again,” said Velvet. 

“You bin on the lot,” said Mrs. Brown. “Come home 
now.” 

“But Merry and Mally . . .” 

“The horses’ll get all of a do,” said the head groom, 
“if they get too many on ’em. Better let them graze now, 
and to-morrow they’ll be more themselves.” 

The horses were turned loose and the saddlery carried 
back to the slaughter-house, where it was straddled over 
iron hook-brackets among the sheep’s bodies. 

The head groom stayed to midday dinner. The two 
others went down to the inn. It was Irish stew, with 
dumplings and onions. As the groom ate, he gave Velvet 
advice on how to catch the horses. His hat with the crepe 
on it was laid on the sideboard, 

“They haven’t been out since last summer, and 
they’re sure to be a bit wild at first. But you want to be 
up there, sitting on the wall, and just feeding them apd 



“national velvet” 89 

coaxing them for a bit before you try to catch them. Airs. 
James she’s ■wily. Sir Pericles’ll do am thing in the world 
you tell him. He knows a lot and what he knows is all 
pure goodness. Mrs. James is what you might call 
worldly wise. The pony’s just pure cuss. He’ll jump his 
own height if you can ever get him to believe in you. 
You can use a bit of stick on him. He’s suspicious of 
kindness. But never touch Sir Pericles with anything. 
He’ll break his heart and go sour. Fancy, she’s no 
temperament. The little one, Angelina, wants playing 
with an’ fondling, like you might fondle this dog here.” 
Jacob grinned and bowed. 

“Nice dog,” added the groom. Jacob trembled with 
expectation. But the groom, pulling a piece of gristle out 
of his mouth, only laid it on the edge of his plate. 

“You haven’t asked about food. Velvet,” said Edwina. 
But Velvet, who couldn’t manage dumplings and onions, 
looked more ready to be carried to bed. 

“Food now,” said the groom. “But they’re to be out 
to grass entirely? Well, well. . . . They’ll just have to 
get accustomed to it. It’s to be hoped they won’t blow 
their bellies out the first day. But the grass is thin up 
there and that’s a mercy. If they get colic you’ll have to 
bring ’em in and sweat ’em and draught ’em. Whisky and 
rum together’s the thing.” 

“Half and half?” said Mi abruptly. 

The groom looked at him. “You’ll be taking ’em on, 

I daresay?” he said hopefully. 

“Mi won’t waste his time,” said Mr. Brown with 
authority. “The girls must leam what there is to learn.” 

“Leave it, leave it,” said Mrs. Brown. “It’ll settle itself.” 

“My plate makes me retch,” whispered Velvet to her 
mother. 



NATIONAL VELVET 




9 ° 


c< 


“Grumble, grumble, grumble,” said Air. Brown, who 
had heard. 

“Ho ! I gotta huge Huge caterpillar in my greens i” 
said Donald, holding it up. 

“It’s dead!” said Mally. Velvet put her face in her 
hands. 

Mrs. Brown rose and took a plate otf "-he sideboard. 
“Put it there, Donald,” she said firmly, “' xid not another 
word about it.” 

“Let me see it,” said Merry, leanin forward. Mr. 
Brown looked up frowning. “There’s tnnners about 
caterpillars,” he said sharply. “Put them aside and 
say nothing . ” 

“It’s done me !” said Velvet through her hands. “Can I 
go?” 

“Yes you can go,” said her mother. Mr. Brown looked 
up again. “No good keeping her,” said Mrs. Brown. 
“She’ll vomit.” 



B 



Chapter VI 


4 ‘Donald yelling on the Green!” called Mrs. Brown 
from the scullery. 

Mi, with a bridle on his knees, in the living room, rose 
and looked through the flower- window. 

“Mally’s got him up in front on Mrs. James,” he said. 

“S’e all right?” 

“Can’t see what’s wrong with him. He’s screaming 
awful.” 

“Alally,” called Airs. Brown, opening the front door. 
“Stop it. He’s got a pin or something.” 

Mrs. James was cantering jerkily round and round the 
Green at what Mally believed to be a show canter. 
Donald, sitting on the edge of the saddle in front of 
Mally, had his arms over her arms and his bare legs were 
sinking beneath her knees, preventing her grip. He was 
scarlet in the face, his mouth was open, and he was 
screaming. His head jerked madly up and down as Mrs. 
James bounded. With difficulty Mally pulled up. 

“Can’t get off,” called Mally (for Donald was half 
underneath her), then slid off in a heap with the child in 
her arms. Mrs. James sprang away in fear and trotted 
into the yard. Donald, sobbing, began at once to search 
in the grass. 

“Whatever’s the matter, Donald?” said Mrs. Brown 
from the doorway. 

“Lost my sixpence. My chocolate sixpence,” screamed 
Donald, hysterically turning over every tuft. 

“Good God is that all?” said Mally, rubbing her knee. 



9 z “national velvet” 

She got up and went after Mrs. James. 

“Lost his sixpence,” said Mrs. Brown to Mi, closing 
the door and returning to the scullery. 

“Ain’t lost his nerve,” said Mi, polishing the bit. 

“Lot o’ work we get out o ? you. Mil” said the butcher, 
coming in from the shed. “Place slimy with sheep 
stommach 1 Get on cleaning, do. Bits and leathers and 
irons and horses ...” He disappeared again. 

Mi grinned, put the bit on the sideboard and followed 
him. The little living room was dark and empty. Jacob 
parted the fringe of the sofa-covering with his beaded 
nose and stole out, dragging his hindquarters after him 
with a yawn. He glanced round, grinned too, and 
leaped upon the sofa, turned round once or twice, 
scraped primaevally with his foot and lay down. 

Mi stuck his head back through the slaughter-shed 
door. 

“Ha!” he said, and sprang for the sofa. Jacob was 
underneath again in a flash of white. 

* * # * 

When the horses had been with the Browns a month, 
life readjusted itself and everything was easier than 
had been thought. 

The horses had lost flesh a little in the dry, sea blown 
field, and were very slightly out of condition. Mi knew 
it, but did not speak of it to Velvet. Velvet frowned, 
and put her fingers into small hollows on the haunches, 
but said nothing. On the whole it was as well, for, 
comed-up as the horses had been when they arrived, 
the four girls would have had much more difficulty with 
them. 

In the mornings they rode them in the field, and Mi, 



"national velvet” 93 

when he could sneak away, constructed jumps out of old 
packing cases, branches and bean poles, carrying up his 
precious hammer and nails. In the late afternoons they 
cantered over the Hullocks high up above the sea, 
preferably just before sunset. Mi watched them go off 
with a queer look in his eye, a look old Dan had worn 
when he saw Araminty Brown strike out from the brim 
of the land. There are men who like to make something 
out of women. 

Velvet and Edwina usually rode Sir Pericles or Mrs. 
James. Mally liked her battles with George, and Meredith 
who never knew sufficiently what she was doing, was 
safest and happiest on Fancy. 

“What shall we do when the summer’s over?” said 
Velvet one evening to Edwina, as they rode along a chalk 
track on a ridge. “We can’t keep Sir Pericles and Mrs. 
James out.” 

“It’ll be murder,” said Edwina. 

“Mother’ll do something with father,” said Velvet. 

While they cantered in a stream Merry always formed 
the tail. She went with a loose rein and trusted God. 
Fancy plodded along and minded his path. Merry liked 
the air whistling round her forehead, and the shifting 
clouds reflected on the Hullocks. She watched for 
partridge and thought of her canaries. The arrival of the 
horses had not disturbed her at all. The partridges rose 
and went skimming away sideways and downhill like 
falling arrowheads. The rooks tossed about in the sky 
like a tipcart of black paper in a whirlwind. The larks 
hung invisible and the hawk hung visible. But Meredith, 
glancing at them, knowing them, was reminded only of 
Arabelle, of Mountain Jim, of Butter and Dreadnought 
Susan. She was not romantic about wild birds. She liked 



94 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

her power over her little yellow flight at home. 

“When we bring out Donald, what'll we start him on?” 
began Velvet. (This was a favourite theme.) Donald was 
to ride, youngest, in the under-eight. He was to ride 
well, for the sake of their honour, but capital might also 
be made of his youth and his silver hair. He was to ride 
home up the village, carrying the silver cup he had won as 
best-boy-rider in the under-eight. But what on? That 
was the everlasting question. 

“George is the narrowest.” 

“George would have him off in a second.” 

“Do you suppose ...” began Meredith, but nobody 
listened to her. Mating was her mania. She was certainly 
going to talk about mating. 

They walked their horses slowly down the chalk road 
leading to the village and reached the field, 

“Who's got the key? Meredith, you had the key.” 

Meredith fumbled under her cotton frock. Not one of 
them had riding breeches. 

“It was in my knicker pocket,” she said, turning her 
brown knickers almost inside out. 

“You've lost it I” they all said instantly. Edwina got 
down and, undoing a bit of wire, took the gate off its 
hinges and opened it from the wrong side. 

“Fve got it!” said Mally suddenly, fishing in her 
knickers. 

They rode up to a little lean-to allotment-shed with a 
padlock where they kept the saddlery and the rubbers. 
The horses were rubbed down and turned loose, and, 
wiring up the gate's hinge, the girls sauntered back along 
the road to the village. 

“Let's see that schedule again,” said Mally. 

Velvet drew it out of her pocket. They came to a stop 



“national velvet” 95 

and sat on a flint bridge over a stream. The setting sun 
picked out the flints like pieces of glass. 

“ ‘Novices jumping/ 55 said Velvet, pointing to an item 
many times underlined. The whole programme was 
ready to drop to pieces. 

“Children's Novice jumping/’ corrected Edwina. 

“Well, of course! Sir Pericles couldn’t do anything 
else. It’ll be three foot.” 

“Three foot six, 2vli says.” 

“Are you sure?” 

“Well, you know what he is. He never likes to be 
wrong.” 

“Find out how he found out, anyway.” 

“George can jump three foot six.” 

“Easy, if he wants to,” said Mally. 

“About money,” said Velvet. “We ought to look at it 
that way. There’s more to be won in the jumping than in 
potatoes or bending. But there’s most to be won in the 
hurdles races. Most of all. Pounds.” 

“But we. . . . You wouldn’t do that?” 

“I don’t know,” said Velvet. “It isn’t so awful. It’s 
only low hurdles and a hustle.” 

“Don’t you remember the way some of them crashed 
last year?” 

“There’s no need to crash like that,” said Velvet. 
“It’s the men who crash, not the women.” 

“Why is that?” 

“I think they must be wilder,” said Velvet. 

“They win more too,” said Mally. 

“Sometimes women win,” said Velvet in her clear 
voice, lifting her boy’s face just a little. 

“Would they let you?” 

“Oh, yes, in gymkhanas. It’s the size of the horse that 



9 6 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

counts. It doesn’t matter who rides. It’s ‘Open.’ It 
doesn’t say ‘Adults/ See in this one? First prize £$*' 

“Well just have to borrow our entries, and pay them 
back out of prizes.” 

‘"But if we don’t get any prizes?” 

Nobody answered. 

“Who can we borrow from?” 

“W e haven’t paid Mi yet for the tickets for the raffle. 
And there’s sixpence owing on Mar’s Bars and twopence 
on Crunchies.” 

“Those are only shillings !” said Velvet impatiently. 
4 4 We are going to win pounds . \X r e must j us t borrow again. ’ ’ 

“Couldn’t we sell something?” 

“We ought to sell Miss Ada,” said Meredith. 

There was a silence like the silence of wasps before 
attack. 

“I wasn’t thinking !” said Meredith hurriedly. 

“I should think not !” said Mally. 

“But there’s something in it,” said Edwina. “We’ve 
got too many horses. If we sold the piebald we’d have 
money to pay for all the other horses.” 

“If anybody ever sells the piebald,” said Velvet slowly, 
“I might as well die.” 

“Well, it’s borrow or sell,” said Edwina. “Come 
along. We’ve got to feed them still.” 

The sky green, the sun almost gone, they returned, 
buckets of oats mixed with chaff carried between them. 
They pulled branches of reeds and switched the horses 
off as they tried to steal each other’s buckets. George ate 
with the whites gleaming in the corners of his eyes, and, 
as he finished, his ears went back. Then with a rush he 
stormed another bucket, and the evening rang with the 
clatter of iron shoes, girls’ curses, and zinc buckets 



NATIONAL VELVET 


>> 


it 


97 


overturned. Mrs. James ate steadily and could lash out if 
interrupted. Sir Pericles was nervous and would rather 
not eat at all than be hurried. Fancy threw his bucket 
over, mixed his oats with earth. Angelina got the 
leavings. Unbroken, she was definitely out to grass and 
was only a crumb-picker, like a dog. 

The stars came out as they watched the horses eat. 

“Mrs. James, Mrs. James/’ said Velvet suddenly, with 
love. And the mare laid her ears back at such nonsense. 

“Why do you love her?” asked Meredith. 

“She is like mother,” said Velvet. 

“Oh. . . . How?” 

“She is,” said Velvet. “Aren’t they wild and lovely 
in this field at night ! Look how their eyes shine ! Look at 
Angelina’s! Got kitten’s eyes.” 

“Come ... up, ilrs. James!” said Mally, tugging. 

“What’s a matter?” 

Mally had the mare’s off-fore in her hands. “Shoe gone. 
I thought so. Now there’ll be shoeing bills. Had you 
thought of that?” 

“That’s upkeep. Father’ll pay,” said Edwina. 

“Yes, but pay and pay, and there’ll come an end. 
There’s nothing coming in on these horses,” said Mally. 

“At Pendean. ... at Pendean . . said Velvet, 
stammering and desperate all at once, 

“You won’t make a fortune anyway. And you may 
break your neck. Mother won’t let you do it.” 

“If I get the entry money. I’ll enter. She won’t know 
till I’m down at the starting post.” 

“Come along,” said Edwina, holding the gate. 

The horses who had finished hurried after them. They 
were shut out at the gate and hung their heads over into 
the dark. 



98 “national velvet” 

“Git in the ditch !” said Mally as they walked. They all 
saw the two fiery points among the dark weeds. 

“Shush!” said Edwina, jumping suddenly to the brink 
of the ditch. The eyes winked and blew out. 

“Cats’ eyes shine like thieves’ lamps,” said Velvet. 
“What’s for supper?” 

. “I just bin wondering,” said Meredith. 

“It’s the two lobsters father brought 1” said Mally 
suddenly. “Mother said she’d do ’em hot . . They 
ran, buckets clanking. 

The spaniels, pressed against the door, yelped as Mally 
pushed them aside. 

The living room smelt alive with hot lobster. A red, 
entrancing smell. 

Edwina snatched a little parcel that had come by post 
from off the sideboard. 

“What’s that!” said Velvet and Mally instantly. 

“Mine,” said Edwina. She shot up the stairway to the 
bedroom. 

All three streamed after her. 

“I wish to God I had a room of my own !” panted 
Edwina, turning on them at bay from the dressing table, 
the parcel in her hand. “I shan’t . . . I won’t undo it.” 

“Hey !” called Mrs. Brown. “Father’s come ! Come on 
down. Never mind washing. It won’t stand a minute.” 

In a few seconds they were all grouped round the table 
as keen as the dogs outside. 

Mi appeared from nowhere. 

The lobster was borne in on a vast dish, surrounded by 
a bank of rice. It was chopped up, thickened with flour, 
buttered, and boiling hot. 

“Where’s that sherry?” said father, diving for the 
cupboard. “There was a drop.” 



“national velvet” 99 

“You’ll cool it down,” objected Mrs. Brown. 

“Poof!” said father. “Where’s the damn thing ? 
Here it is . . .” He got the bottle and poured half a 
glass over the lobsters. “Turn it over then.” 

Mrs. Brown took up a spoon and turned the steaming 
lobster in the sherry. The helpings were ladled out, a lot 
of rice and a fair share of lobster. They ate. 

“God it’s good,” said Mally. 

“You don’t need to keep on saying God,” said Mr. 
Brown, with his mouth full. “Just be quiet.” 

“Poor Donald,” said Velvet. 

“Sleeping like an angel,” said Mi. 

“Empty angel,” said Mally. “No lobster inside 
him.” 

“Stir him up if he had!” said Mi. “My word . . .” 

At the thought of Donald stirred up with lobster to 
worse excesses they fell still again and continued to 
eat. 

“No dog eats shellfish,” said Mr. Brown sideways to 
Jacob, who was bowing at him. 

“How d’you know?” asked Mally. 

“Kind o’ law,” said Mr. Brown. “My father always 
said it to his dogs.” 

“Give him a bit an’ see.” 

“Can’t spare any,” said Mr. Brown. 

Jacob mooned under the table. 

“Father, Mrs. James’s lost a shoe,” said Velvet. 

The storm broke swiftly over the supper table. 

“Oats an’ shoes an’ soon there’ll be bits o’ saddlery 
. . . nothing to show for it . . . nothing but pleasure 
and a lot o’ girls being spoiled for school . . .” The 
storm blew in a wind of indignation and as it blew Velvet 
was conscious of her father’s case. It was a good one. 



ioo “national velvet” 

There was no benefit to him in the horses. Th3*lfcHely 
creatures ate, and were sterile. They laboured not, a£&* 
ate and ate, and lost their shoes. Velvet had no answers 
and no comfort to offer. And all her promises were 
child’s promises and air until she could carry them 
out. 

When supper was over and cleared, and father was 
standing in the street with his pipe, she pulled out the 
gymkhana schedule from the dresser drawer, and 
bent her strange face over the yellow paper. 

Mechanically her hand went up to rock the gold binder 
and lay it in her lap. 

‘"You would choose to-night !” said Edwina, giving her 
a shove with her elbow. 

Velvet stared at her. 

“Get your plate in,” said Edwina. “You always do it 
when he’s angry.” 

Velvet stared at her still. A gust of loyalty to her 
father shook her heart. Edwina had a way of talking. . . . 
She eyed Edwina sideways. Edwina was rough, and she 
looked as fine as wire. Something about the beauty of 
the antelope face caught Velvet’s attention. Suddenly 
she wondered if Edwina would save her if she were 
drowning. Then studied the schedule again. 

“Seven two-and-sixes,” she said finally. 

“Make it eight. That’s a pound,” said Mally. “Wher- 
ever d’you suppose we’re going to get that from?” 

“Let’s look again and see if there’s anything we can 
leave out,” said Meredith. 

“No point in doing that,” said Velvet. “It’s just as 
difficult to borrow seventeen and six as a pound.” 

“Queer idea,” said Mally. 

“Why queer?” 



NATIONAL VELVET 


>9 


IOI 


« 


“T hinkin g saving doesn’t matter.” 

“We got nothing/’ said Velvet. “We got nothing, 
have we?” 

“Nothing.” 

“Then we might as well ask for what we want as ask 
for less.” 

cc Who you going to ask?” 

“Don’t know/’ said Velvet. “I’ll have to see. Let’s 
work it through once more.” 

There was a rustle by the door and she put her plate in. 

“Let’s go to Miss Ada.” 

They filed out across the yard, and stood and sat by 
Miss Ada’s manger. 

Miss Ada stood droopingly and sour. She had not 
seen much of them lately. 

“Give her something to brighten her up ” said 
Edwina. “She’s looking a crime ” 

Velvet pulled up her frock. 

“You’ve always got sugar in your knickers ” said 
Mally. “How does mother let you have so much?” 

“I buy it.” 

“ Buy it?” 

“I promised Mr. Croom I’d pay, after the gymkhana.” 
She fumbled. “Here’s a bit.” 

Miss Ada took it in her exasperated manner, and 
turned her back on them. 

“ ‘Children’s Bending/ ” read Velvet. “That’s Mally. 
On George. ‘Children’s Potato Race.’ Me on Mrs. 
James. ‘Children (Novice) Jumping/ Me on Sir Pericles 
. . . and on the piebald.” 

“The piebald” ! The three voices snapped in the stall 
like whipcracks. “The piebald 1 But you’ve never 
ridden him.” 



102 “national velvet” 

“I shall have ridden him. By then. Remember how he 
jumped the wall?” 

“Yes, but . . ” 

“I shall have ridden him. I’m going over to-morrow 
afternoon.” 

“We’ll all go. To-morrow afternoon,” said Meredith. 

“I’ll ride him quiedy up and down the valley. We’ll 
take Sir Pericles and change the saddles. His ought to fit 
the piebald. There’s nothing wrong with the piebald, 
except that he hates being shut in square fields with 
walls. Or else he likes jumping walls. Where’s the list? 
There’s the Threadneedle Race. That’s me.” 

“Who’ll thread your needle?” 

“Mother.” 

“Then you’ll have to tell her you’re racing?” 

“At the last minute. She’ll do it. What is the fuss 
about racing? You’ve got to sit on and go round. It 
isn’t even like a professional race, where they catch their 
legs in yours, if you’re an amateur, an’ throw you off.” 

“How d’you know?” 

“I read about it in the Li’bray.” 

“Where’d you get the penny?” 

“On tick again,” said Velvet wearily. “There’s an old 
book there on the National.” 

“What National?” 

“The Grand National,” said Velvet, with an undertone 
in her voice like a girl in love. 

“The next’s a Wheelbarrow race,” said Mally reading. 

“We can’t all do everything,” said Velvet, “because of 
the money. We must choose. Anyway, we’ve worked it 
out. We’ve eight half crowns.” 

“Where?” 

“I mean that’s what we’re going to borrow.” 



“national velvet” 103 

“When’s the closing day for the entries?’ 

“Friday,” said Velvet. “I must get the pound by 
then.” 

“Bed yer ma says,” said Mi, putting his head in at the 
door of the stable. 

In the dark, when the light was out, Mally remem- 
bered. “What was that parcel, D’wina?” she asked. 

“Hell!” said Edwina, settling herself angrily further 
into the clothes. “Not a minute by myself, . . . Never 
by myself!” she whispered into her pillow, and the 
tears of growth and self-pity heated her eyes. 

Very soon they were all asleep, and the dreams waved 
like palm leaves over the room. 



H 



4 


Chapter VII 


The sun poured down on the beach. The Hullocks 
blazed, hot and grey with burnt grass in the late 
gymkhana summer. Horses were everywhere, creeping 
over the dun hills, silhouetted on the skyline like plumes, 
plunging down the skyline to the sea. Donald came in to 
midday dinner, shoeless, with painted toenails. 

“What’s he got on his feet?” said Mally, Velvet and 
Meredith all together, with gimlet eyes and sharp voices. 
Donald climbed on to his chair and placed his ten scarlet 
toes on the table. 

“D’wina did me,” he said. He looked pleased. 

“Where’s D’wina?” 

“Up in your bedroom.” 

Down came Edwina, blowing on her last finger. She 
held up her two hands, ten drops of deep crimson 
madder at the tips. 

“The parcel!” she said tauntingly, and with triumph. 
“Wet still. Don’t touch!” 

There was a silence. 

“Have you got stuff to get it off?” asked Velvet in a 
cold voice. 

“I’m not going to get it off.” 

“Gymkhana’s Friday week.” 

“Well?” 

“D’you think you’re going to ride Mrs. James with 
those red nails?” said Velvet. 

“Why not?” 


104 



“national velvet” ioj 

“Men have played polo on Mrs. James/’ said Velvet, 
choking, “an you . . .” 

“Comingl” called Mrs. Brown from the kitchen, with 
the dish. 

“Godamighty look at the boy’s feet! Who’s dolled ’m 
up?” said Mr. Brown from the street door. 

“I got PAINTED feet,” said Donald with satisfaction. 
“D’wina done it.” 

Mr. Brown paused and looked at D’wina. He saw her 
nails and still he looked. She shuffled a little and took her 
seat at the table. Mis. Brown came into the room with 
the dish of oxtail, glutinous, steaming, crusts of toast 
swimming. 

Mr. Brown sat down and began to help the food. Mi 
slipped in and took his seat. Jacob caught the door on his 
shoulder and squeezed in, squirming, as it closed. Mally, 
Velvet, Merry, everyone was silent. When the food was 
all around Mr. Brown observed that Donald’s toes were 
one thing. Then he paused. Velvet waited, almost in 
pity, for what was to fall upon D’wina. 

But father was strange. He only said, — c Tm not 
against yer fingers, Edwina. Looks kind of finished to 
me. Yer getting on too. Time you worried about your 
appearance. Donald’s toes is just silly.” 

“What’s he done to his toes?” said Mrs. Brown, eating. 

Donald arranged them again' upon the tablecloth. 
His mother looked at them and went on with her 
dinner. 

“Looks like my garnets,” she remarked. “An’ can you 
count ’em, Donald?” 

So it was left to Velvet to undo Edwina. She clinched 
her spirit and knit it up again. When dinner was over she 
waited for Edwina in the bedroom where she knew 



io 6 “national velvet” 

she would come to look again at her bottle of nail 
varnish. 

From the height of the window, beyond the canary 
cages, the immortal Hullocks browsed, burnished and lit, 
at two in the afternoon. Bowed like silver barrels they 
were set in rows endwise to the sea. Like pigs, like sheep, 
like elephants, hay-blonde with burnt grass. Velvet’s 
mind stuttered like a small candle before the light and the 
height and the savage stillness of the middle afternoon. 
As she gazed her heart rolled slowly over, a wheel on 
which something is written. Edwina seemed to her small 
and distressed. The piebald horse, the light of her mind, 
walked slowly across her imagination. She leant upon a 
cage. Merry opened the door and saw her. 

“Looking at my canaries?” she asked, warmed to her 
marrow, like a mother whose baby is patted. 

“No,” said Velvet turning round. Then seeing 
Meredith’s face — “I was at first, and then I looked out- 
side at the Hullocks. We’re going over to the piebald as 
soon’s Mally’s washed up.” 

“What are you going to do about D’wina’s nails?” 
said Meredith, and came towards the cages. 

“Nothing,” said Velvet. “She can have her nails if she 
likes.” 

“And ride Mrs. James?” 

“If she likes to,” said Velvet. “It’s a disgrace to us but 
she can.” 

“I thought you minded so.” 

Velvet said nothing. Then she poked her finger in at 
Mountain Jim. “Will he sit on it?” 

“On mine he will!” said Meredith eagerly, and opened 
the cage door. Mountain Jim bowed and fluttered his 
wing tips. Then descended to her finger and twisted his 



NATIONAL VELVET 


107 


C C 




layered neck and cocked his easy head. 

“You like them better than the horses* don’t you?” 
said Velvet wonderingly. 

“Nobody else wants them,” said Meredith. “And 
they’re small. They’re like a doll’s house.” 

“Why there’s a new one !” 

“Mi bought it for me,” said Merry in a small, touched 
voice, “because of Africa. This morning. That new 
mate got it for him.” 

“What mate?” 

“The plumber’s mate. The boy with the glass eye. 
The cat got it an’ it’s got no tail, but Mi says rub it with 
oil an’ it’ll grow. Hair oil he says. He’s going to give me 
a tea-spoon full of his.” 

“Does Mi use hair oil?” 

“No, he doesn’t use it, but he bought it.” 

“Merry,” said Velvet, “nobody’s thought what we’re 
going to wear at the gymkhana.” 

“Our knickers.” 

“Yes,” said Velvet, pondering. “Yes, our knickers. 
Every other child will have jodhpurs. I suppose they’ll 
let us ride? In knickers?” 

“Oh, I should think so,” said Meredith, cleaning out 
the drinking pots with her finger. Look at Butter bow- 
ing!” 

Butter opened her wings and bowed from her perch. 

“She can’t make up her mind to go from perch to 
perch without doing that,” said Meredith. “She laid 
another useless egg this morning. Just drops them 
about.” 

“Are you sure it’s useless?” 

“I put it in water an’ it floated. It’s sterile.” 

“Does Mi say ” 



io8 “national velvet” 

“That’s what Mi says. Float ’em. No good if they 
float.” 

“Mi cornin’ with us to the piebald this afternoon?” 

“It’s such a long way to walk,” said Merry. “If only 
he would ride ” 

“Nothin’ll ever make him,” said Velvet. “He won’t 
even talk about it.” 

Donald came round the bedroom door, with naked 
feet and painted toes. He carried a postcard in his hand. 
“Y ou gotta postcard. From Aunt Em. ’ ’ 

“For me?” said Velvet. 

“Sfer Meredith.” 

Meredith took it. “She’s at Brighton. Just her 
love . . .” 

“Thurs a picture,” said Donald. He looked at it. 
“What is it? It’s a church.” 

“No, it’s a palace,” said Meredith, reading the printed 
inscription. “It’s the Pavilion, at Brighton. ‘Where 
George the Fourth lived,’ it says.” 

“Who’s George a Fourth?” asked Donald. 

“Was a king . . . lived in this palace.” 

“Whur’s he now?” 

“Oh, he’s dead. Ages ago.” 

“Who died ’im?” 

“Nobody died him. He just died.” 

“Well, whur’s he now?” 

“Well dead, Donald. Like everybody. Everybody 
dies.” 

“Why?” 

“Weil they do. You will an’ I will an’ old people do.” 

“Do what?” 

“Die.” 

“Who died that king then? Who died him, I say?” 



“NATIONAL VELVET” IO9 

“Velvet,” said Meredith exasperated. “You tell him. 
I got to finish these canaries.” 

Velvet considered Donald with a mild expression. He 
was frowning. His lovely face was angry. 

“Where’s your spit bottle?” she asked. 

“Ts’full,” said Donald, his whole face lighting with 
radiance. “I’ll get it, shah I?” 

“Yes,” said Velvet, “only hurry up.” 

“You didn’t do much,” said Merry. 

“He didn’t really want to know,” said Velvet. “He 
just wanted to be angry. Bin smacked or something, 
downstairs. He knows all about death. Look how he 
trod on those ants.” 

“Perhaps he didn’t like a king being dead. A king’s not 
like an ant. He’s coming with his beastly bottle.” 

Donald fell on the top step and his bottle was smashed. 
It had been the work of weeks. The stairs ran with spit 
and blood and tinkled with broken glass. The house was 
rent. Mr. Brown, Mrs. Brown, Mi and all the sisters 
picked him up. 

Mally cut her knee kneeling on the glass. Edwina read 
to Donald, who had to have a stitch in the ball of his foot. 
Mrs. Brown kept Merry to help her with the washing. 

In the end Velvet took Sir Pericles and rode alone to 
Tablet Gully. 

In Tablet Gully the piebald cropped, moving from tuft 
to tuft in sun and shadow, and flashing as he moved. 
The bone of his shoulder, thrown up by his stooping 
neck, rippled under his sliding skin. His parti-coloured 
mane hung forward over his neck, and his long tail 
tipped the ground. 

He swung round with the sun. His teeth tore evenly 
as he worked. Now his quarters could be seen, slightly 



no “national velvet” 

pear-shaped and faulty, but strong. His hocks, too thick, 
but straight and clean, waded in the burnt grasses. He 
lifted a sloping pastern finished with a pink hoof, and 
bit a fly off his leg. The clouds reared overhead, the 
legendary gully with its dead man’s tablet was heavy with 
steady sun and shielded from the wind. 

Among the scabious flowers on the north slope sat 
Velvet, steady as a gorse-bush, cross-legged, and watch- 
ing the horse. She had tied Sir Pericles to a gate in the 
valley behind her. 

Sitting like a Buddha, dreaming of the horse, riding the 
horse in dreams. A piece of cake and a Mars Bar beside 
her in a paper bag, and the insects hummed and the 
mauve August flowers hardly moved. Just to look at 
him her heart beat violently with ambition. Her strong 
and inexperienced imagination saw no barriers. She was 
capable of apprehending death and of conceiving fame — 
in her own way, not for herself but for her horse. For a 
shilling she had won this wild creature that did not know 
its strength. In this valley, tucked away, she had got 
glory. What she meant to do made her heart beat afresh. 
She looked steadily at the piebald as though she pitied 
him. Eating his grass, prince, with his kingdom waiting 
for him! Her hand stole out and pulled the Mars Bar 
from its bag, and she sucked its heavy stump, made from 
milk chocolate, toffee and nuts. 

All the Hullocks were creeping with dowdy animals at 
livery. But here in Tablet Gully moved on its clever legs 
this living horse. Pulling gently at a blister on her heel 
she rode him in her mind. She would dazzle the world 
with this spot of luck, she and the creature together, 
breathing like one body, trying even to death, till their 
hearts burst. She would place her horse where he 



“national velvet” III 

belonged, in history. She clasped the Mars Bar like a 
prophet’s child, with both hands. 

“Leaders have been cut from coaches, to do it . . .” 
she whispered as she rose. “Even horses out of carts. 
Why not him?” 

A halter made of rope lay behind her and picking it up 
she walked gently down the valley holding it behind her 
frock. The piebald stared at her, interested. He loved 
humanity, and had it not been for the exceptional grass in 
Tablet Gully would have been off to the village long 
before this. 

Frankly he watched her come, nostrils slightly dis- 
tended and both calm eyes upon her, the blue eye, and 
that white eye where the pied colour streaked across his 
cheek. She paused beside him and slipped the halter over 
his head. He shook his neck to free it from flies and came 
with her willingly. 

They reached Sir Pericles, who snorted at sight of them 
and danced his hindquarters, looking from side to side, 
catching his soft nose on the reins. How could his 
mistress walk so out of valleys leading horses? He was 
intrigued, and excited, jealous, pleased to see her again. 
Velvet loosed and mounted him, and the piebald walked 
sedately at their side, striking out his fore feet in his own 
peculiar gait. 

They reached a field not far away, enclosed by a stone 
wall, and Velvet changed the saddle and bridle, tying Sir 
Pericles with the halter to the gate. She mounted the 
piebald, and walked and trotted him quietly in large 
circles. His mouth was a mixture of lead and rubber. 
He had no notion how to obey the bit but imagined that 
to turn his neck was all that was wanted. He would trot 
onwards with his neck turned to one side like a horse that 



1 12 “national velvet” 

has no face. Velvet had to rock him with her knees to get 
him out of his orbit, and even then it was no more than a 
bewildered stagger to one side. She set him into a canter. 
It was clumsy and gallant, and accomplished with snorts. 
He flung his powerful white head up into the air and 
nearly smashed his rider’s precious plate. Sir Pericles 
watched. The flashing piebald snorted excitedly round 
the field. Above him sat the noble child, thin as famine, 
bony as a Roman, aquiline nose and domed white 
forehead, tufted loonily with her cotton hair. Velvet, 
with her great teeth and her parted lips, her eye sockets 
and the pale eyes in them, looked like a child model for a 
head of Death, an eager bold young Death. She was 
thinking of something far outside the field. She was 
thinking of horses, great horses, as she sat her horse. 

Turning in a flash in the middle of the field she drove 
him on with her knees. They went at the wall together. 
Over the grasses, over the tufts and mounds, both 
knitted in excitement, the horse sprang to the surge of her 
heart as her eyes gazed between his ears at the blue top of 
the flint wall. She bent slightly and held him firm and 
steady, her hands buried in the flying mane firm on the 
stout muscles of his neck. She urged him no more, 
there was no need, but sat him still. He was a natural 
jumper. She did not attempt to dictate to him. They 
cleared the wall together, wildly, ludicrously-high, with 
savage effort and glory, and twice the power and the 
force that was needed. Velvet felt his hind-quarters drop 
when they should have hitched. But there was so much 
space to spare that the piebald could afford it. Neverthe- 
less it was an intemperate and outlandish jump. 

She rode him back to his own valley and loosed him, 
then returned home alone on Sir Pericles, parading in 



“national velvet” 115 

dreams. As she approached the village she was outlined 
against the sunset, on the brow of a Hullock. Stirrups 
short, angled knee and leg etched on the side of the 
saddle; childish, skeleton hands waving with the ebb and 
flow of the horse’s mouth on the reins; hands that 
seemed knotted and tied like a bunch of flowers with 
streamers going from them, swinging together, knuckle 
to knuckle, thumb to thumb, while she sat erect above 
them, her face held on the wand of her body. The straw 
hair floated and stared above the wide-open eyes. 

Sir Pericles walked like Velvet sat. His soft mouth 
held the snaffle as a retriever carries a bird. Yet he 
arched his neck as though his bit were a bit of thorns, and 
his long, almond, Chinese eyes, looked both backward 
and forward at once. He seemed to be watching from 
either end of the agate stuff* that was his window, watch- 
ing Velvet’s leg, watching the horizon before him. The 
oxygen in the evening air intoxicated him. In the 
eye of little Sir Pericles something soft: and immortal 
shone. 

Velvet had laid down the piebald and her ambitions 
and was thinking comfortably of the coming gymkhana. 
In her mind she rose at white-painted gates and fences. 
Her knees crisped with her thoughts in the saddle and she 
lent forward. Sir Pericles never altered his tossing walk. 
His head and tail, both like plumes, flirted, and he 
walked within her dream with a spot of gold upon his 
eyeball. 

It was not the silver cup standing above the wind- 
blown tablecloth that Velvet saw — but the perfection of 
accomplishment, the silken co-operation between two 
actors, the horse and the human, the sense of the lifting 
of the horse-soul into the sphere of human obedience. 



114 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

human effort, and the offering to it of the taste of human 
applause. All this she had learnt already from the 
trained mouth and the kneeling will of Sir Pericles. 

And as the dim sense of this understanding sighed up 
and down her body it entered too into Sir Pericles’ 
nerves, and through his nerves to his comprehension. 
Velvet lived her round of jumps, lips parted, the sunset 
shining on her golden mouth. She rose and fell at the 
triple bar, the water-jump, the gate, the imitation wall. 
She heard the hands, palm on palm, threshing the noise of 
applause. Sir Pericles dreamt it too, a wild dream 
beyond his understanding, but to be recognised when the 
taste came again. 

His hoofs came down sweetly on violets, grass and 
knitted thyme, clanking on a flint, breaking the crisp 
edge of a wheel rut. He took in everything, behind, 
before, and from the body astride him. Below, the 
chimneys were smoking up like poplars and a light was 
lit in the cobbler’s shop. 

They sidled together down the steep grassy banks 
towards the village. 

“Velvet!” said Mally out of the darkness by the 
bottom gate. 

“That you, Mally. Open the gate.” 

“Who’s wired it up like this?” Mally wrenched at the 
twist of wire. She opened it and horse and child passed 
through. “The piebald’s out again Nobody knew you 
bin riding him but us. Came thunderin’ down the street 
ten minutes ago.” 

“Where’s he now? Father angry?” 

“Went down to the sea as usual, an’ slid about. Went 
crackin’ up a side street. Father doesn’t know. Better 
not let him. He’s bin carrying on about the horses. It 



“national velvet” 1 15 

would be the limit if he found the piebald had started 
cracking down the street again.” 

“F'e broke a leg!” said Velvet in a voice of horror. 
“F'e did 1 Might. Easily.” 

“You can't go after him now. It's pitch. Thurs stars 
coming.” 

Sir Pericles gave a whinny. There came a sharp, near 
answer, and the piebald stalked out of the shadows, 
gleaming in the dusk. 

“He's here!” Velvet’s marvelling whisper, as she 
slipped off Sir Pericles and held out her hand. The 
piebald came nearer, breathing hard. 

“Mount, mount!” said Mally. “Get on again! He'll 
follow. He won’t think you want to catch him.” 

“What'll we do with him?” said Velvet as she 
scrambled back. 

“I'll go an' get a halter and we’ll try an' put him. . . . 
Put him in Miss Ada's box to-night and put her in the 
toolhouse I” 

The piebald followed, threshing his head, snorting the 
pleasant village smells, till they reached the yard of the 
cottage. He drooped his neck for the halter like a horse 
born in a kitchen. Soon Miss Ada stood among the 
spades and shovels. 

“Poor old darling Ada,” said Velvet, as she pushed 
the shovels to safety behind a wooden case. “Get half the 
bedding from the loose box, Mally. The piebald won't 
miss it. He's never had any before. I'll get Ada some 
oats to make her happy.” 

“What'll father say . . . about the piebald being in?” 

“He won't know. I’ll take him back early in the 
morning.” 

“Bet he neighs in the night. We'll shut both doors. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


116 




He might try and jump the bottom one. Let’s give 
him. . . . What’ll we give him?” 

“Just hay,” said Velvet. “He’s not accustomed to 
oats.” 

“D’youknow . . .” said Mally suddenly, pausing with 
an armful of hay. 

“What?” 

“He’ll be worse than ever after this. He’ll be coming 
back every night to get a night’s lodging and a supper ! 
You never saw . . .” 

“What?” 

“The way he came down the village street, slipping and 
sliding and snorting and his eyes shining.” 

“He’s like a prince 1” said Velvet. 

“Eh?” 

“Just a thing I thought,” said Velvet. “I pretend he’s a 
prince.” 

At supper everyone ate with memories behind them. 
Edwina had been kissed by Teddy, for the first time. Her 
nails had shocked and enchanted him. Merry had oiled 
the canary’s stump, and was worrying about what she 
should call him. She had got a list of gods’ names, and a 
birthday list of girls’. It was so hard to know the sex of 
canaries. 

Mally and Velvet were thinking of what they had got 
in the stable, the prince who might kick up a row in the 
night, Donald was asleep now, stitches in his foot, 
blood and spit mingled in his dreams. He yelped from 
time to time in his sleep like a puppy. 

“Whur’s Jacob?” said Mr. Brown suddenly as he ate. 

“After they bitches,” said Mi, with resentment. 

“Seem bad this August.” 

“Bitches? Terrible they are. Crown’s got one an’ Ede’s 



“national velvet” 117 

got one. That Jacob he . . .” Words failed, and slightly 
redder than before Mi continued to eat. 

As the door opened for the pudding’s entry they heard 
the impatient hammer of a hoof on wood. Mr. Brown 
continued to munch his bread. Mi sat up and his eyes 
flickered upon Velvet’s face. 

“I’m not hungry any more. Can I get down, mother?” 
said Velvet. 

“Say your grace,” said Mr. Brown. 

“F’whatayave receivedthankGod,” said Velvet, push- 
ing her chair in, and went out in the dark. At the corner 
of the yard and the road four apple trees were enclosed 
by a broken fence. They were laden with little sweet 
apples and the ground was littered with the wind- 
blowings. She gathered two handfuls and went to the 
stable with them. 

Mi hung about the yard all the evening, whistling for 
Jacob and looking down the road. Once he opened the 
top portion of the loose-box and looked in, grinning. 

“Gettin’ on all right?” he enquired. Velvet was 
sitting on the manger. 

“He’s quiet while I’m here,” said Velvet. “But I can’t 
stay here all night. Where’s father?” 

“Gone down to finish the bills,” said Mi. “I thought 
he better.” 

Later in the evening Mally swinging on the gate by the 
apple trees saw Jacob coming up the empty road. 

“Bitches good?” she asked him, flinging him a block 
of lichen off the gate post. 

“Succulent,” said Jacob, making a half circle round her. 

“Go an’ tell Mi about it !” said Mally. 

Jacob went, bowing and grinning. Mi walloped him 
and gave him his supper. 



Il8 “national velvet” 

Later in the night the house was quiet, the piebald 
quiet (for he had Velvet in her nightgown sitting on his 
manger), the moon rose steadily. At two o’clock the 
moon began to sink. Mi came to the stable door and 
looked over the top. He wore his sleeping clothes, 
several old sleeveless jerseys, and a pair of shorts. 

“Get to bed now,” he said. “I’ll do a bit.” 

Velvet lowered off the manger. “Here’s six quarters 
left,” she said pointing in the manger. “Give him a piece 
every time he seems restless.” 

“What is it?” 

“Apples,” said Velvet. “I bin feeding him bits all 
night.” 

“You’ll make him loose,” said Mi. “Where’s the 
sacking pieces?” 

“In the corner. An’ ties. Ties off the hay bales.” 

At five the sea was running up with a gale behind it 
and pounding in the sewer. The day broke in flashes of 
light and the elms soughed in the wind. The piebald’s 
tail and mane were flung about as Mi led him out into the 
yard, his hooves bound up in sacking. Velvet met them 
in the road. 

“How’d you wake?” asked Mi. 

“An’t bin asleep,” said Velvet. “I just heard the wind. 
Isn’t he good !” 

“Perisher,” said Mi. 

“Oh no,” said Velvet. “Oh no. Wail while I get a 
bridle.” 

She returned with a snaffle-bridle belonging to Sir 
Pericles, one which they had brought in to clean the 
night before. 

“Gimme a leg up. Mi,” and he jumped her on to the 
warm, round back. 



"national velvet” 119 

"Key of the field’s behind the manger. Come up 
an’ help me get Sir Pericles. I got to ride back on 
him.” 

Mi walked beside her up the road to the field in the 
gale. 

"Blowing awful up there,” he said looking to the 
Hullocks. 

"Seaweed’s smelling like drains,” said Velvet, looking 
at the wild and shining east. 

" ’Tis drains,” said Mi sniffing. "Lot a’ nonsense they 
talk about seaweed. You had anything to eat?” 

"No, I forgot.” 

Mi grunted with disfavour. "Fer a sickly girl you give 
yerself something to do 1” he said. 

"An’t sickly. M’wiry,” said Velvet. "Shove the gate 
wider. I’ll stub my knee !” 

Sir Pericles trotted down gladly, tail flying. 

"Halter’s under the stone in the corner,” said Velvet. 

Mi picked it up. Sir Pericles came willingly enough. 
The two horses hustled clumsily through the gate. 

"Good-bye,” said Velvet and went off across the reedy 
ditch, riding the piebald and leading the chestnut. 

"Why don’t you ride the other?” shouted Mi but his 
voice blew back into his mouth as he called into the gale 
coming off the sea. 

He watched the horses go up the chalk road and break 
into a canter on the crest. His old mackintosh flapped on 
his bare legs and the wind tore at the roots of his red hair. 
"If she were a boy . . .” he said longingly to himself. 
With that light body and grand heart he would get her 
into a racing stable. He knew of many up north. He 
had friends here and there. She’d be a great jockey 
some day. Fancy wasting those hands and that spirit and 


1 



120 “national velvet ” 

that lightweight on a girl. “No more’n a skeleton/’ 
he said. “An’ never will be, likely. She’d ride like 
a piece of lightning. No more weight’n a piece of 
lightning.” He thought of her mother . . . and of his 
old father. “Velvet an’ her. A feather an’ a mountain. 
But both the same.” 

Boom . . . went the sea on the cliffs. The savage 
blow came up the valley. Mi hated water. Brought 
up by the Channel trainer he had edged back inland as 
soon as he could. He couldn’t stand the waves and the 
empty trough that sucked and soaked along the lip of 
the beaches. It turned his head, and he went up the village 
whenever he thought of the sea. “How she ever 1” he 
thought, with his mind’s eye fixed sharp on Mrs. Brown. 
Great, wallowing woman, half submerged, water 
pouring backwards and forwards over her shoulders, 
threshing across the water like a whale. A stormy dawn 
when she had landed. “Bet old Dan was pleased,” he 
thought. “Wasn’t many swimming the Channel those 
days.” 

His mind went back to Velvet. He too, like her, was 
longing to place his dream in history. This child. Velvet, 
was good for something. 

He turned back to his bed, shivering. Velvet in his 
thoughts. 

And hungry, sick, delicate, blown so that she could 
hardly breathe. Velvet in the grip of horses and of the 
gale went on across the blunt and unprotected Hullocks. 
Great skies slipped out of the folds, unfurled, and stood 
a thousand miles above her. The sight battered against 
unseeing eyeballs, was drunk into the marrow of some- 
thing older than her brain. Flags and pennons and 
beacons waved above the high land as she sat below. 



“national velvet” IZX 

thinking in slow brown drops of thought, sure of her 
future, counting her plans, warm in expectation, glorious 
butcher’s-Velvet, eyes cast down upon the moving 
shoulders of mortal horses. 






Chapter VIII 


Mi raised thirty shillings for the gymkhana. He borrowed 
it from his girl for Velvet’s sake. That is to say he 
treated love worse than he treated adventure. 

“Your girl,” said Velvet, frowning in thought. 
“Which girl? Didn’t know you had a girl.” 

“Nor I had. Met her at the dance last night,” said Mi. 
“Pleased as Punch, she was. Lent me the money too.” 
So Mi behaved badly, and Velvet knew it. But neither 
she nor Mi cared when they set their minds firm. 

On the day of the gymkhana, about mid-morning, it 
grew suddenly very hot and the rain came down in 
sheets. Inside the living room, polishing the bits, it was 
like the tropics. The girls’ faces were wet. Rain came 
down outside on full leaves, making a rattle and a sopping 
sound. Everything dripped. The windows streamed. 
The glass was like glycerine. 

“Oh, Lord,” said Mally, “oh dear, oh damn !” 

“We’ve only two mackintoshes. Velvet’s has stuck to 
the wall in the hot cupboard. Won’t it rain itself out?” 

“The grass’ll be slippery. What about their shoes being 
roughed?” 

“We’ve no money,” said Velvet, “for roughing.” 

“If Mi had a file . . ” said Mally. 

“A file’s no good. You want nails in.” 

“I’m sweating,” said Edwina, “can’t we have a 
window open?” 

She opened the yard window and the rain came 
crackling in over the cactus. 


122 



“national velvet” 123 

“Hot’s a pit in here !” said Mi, coming in from the 
yard, and taking off his dripping coat. “The yard’s 
swimming. Everything’s floating.” 

“Win they put it off?” 

“The gymkhana? No, it’ll be over soon. It’s a water- 
spout. There’s a great light coming up the way the 
wind’s coming from. Your ma going to serve the dinner 
early?” 

“Yes, at twelve,” said Edwina. “We better clear now. 
Put the bridles and things in the bedroom. Better father 
doesn’t see too much of it !” 

“He knows, doesn’t he?” said Meredith. 

“Yes, he knows, but he doesn’t want to think too 
much about it.” 

At dinner they had sardines instead of pudding. Mrs. 
Brown always served sardines for staying power. Dan 
had dropped them into her mouth from the boat as she 
crossed the Channel. 

Donald considered his on his plate. 

“I’ll take your spines out, Donald,” said Meredith. 

“I eat my spines,” said Donald. 

“No you don’t, Donald. Not the big spine. The 
little bones but not the big one in the middle. Look how 
it comes out !” 

“I eat my spines I say,” said Donald firmly with rising 
colour, and held her knife-hand by the wrist. 

“But look . . . they come out lovely !” said Merry, 
fishing with the fork. The spine of the slit sardine 
dangled in the air and was laid on the edge of the plate. 
Quick as lightning Donald popped it into his mouth with 
his fingers and looked at her dangerously. 

“I crunch up my spines, I like them,” he said. 

“Leave him alone,” said mother. 



124 


CC 


NATIONAL VELVET 


99 


“D’you eat your tails too?” said Merry vexedly. 

“I eat my tails and my spines,” said Donald, and the 
discussion -was finished. 

At one the rain stopped and the sun shone. The 
grass was smouldering with light. The gutters ran long 
after the rain had stopped. 

* * * * 

"Keep up on the hog,” said Velvet, as the horses 
moved along. "We don't want 'em splashed. Gutters 
are all boggy.” They were well on the way to the 
gymkhana, held in the football field at Pendean. 

"We look better in our mackintoshes l” called Mally. 
"I’m glad it rained.” 

"I’m steamy,” said Edwina. "Merry, you can wear 
mine. "You’ll look better.” 

"I’m all right. I don’t want it, thank you, Edwina.” 

But Edwina was struggling out of her mackintosh. 
"You’ll look better. You’re all untidy. . . . Put 
it on!” 

"I don’t want it!” 

"You’re a bully, ’Dwina,” said Mally. "You jus’ want 
to get rid of it an’ not sweat.” 

They turned up a chalk road between a cutting and in a 
few minutes they could see below them the gathering of 
horse-vans in the corner of Pendean field, the secretary’s 
flagged tent, white-painted jumps dotting the course, 
and a stream of horses and ponies drawing along the road 
below. 

The soaking land was spread below them, and the 
flat road of the valley shone like a steel knife. Getting 
off* their horses they led them down the chalk path 
between blackberry bushes, and in ten minutes of 



national velvet 


» 


« 


I2J 


slithering descent they were at the gates of the gymkhana 
field 

“Competitors’ passes,” murmured Edwina and showed 
their pasteboard tickets. 

They picked out a free tree in the field and established 
themselves* 

“Here’s someone’s programme!” said Mally. 
“Squashed and lost. Sixpence saved I” 

They crowded round to read it. 

After endless waiting the band arrived. Then the local 
broadcaster rattled up, mounted on its ancient Ford, and 
settling into its position against the ropes, began to shout 
in bleak, mechanical tones . . . “Event Number One ! 
Event Number One ! Competitors in the Collecting Ring, 
please . . * PLEASE.” 

Instantly the field was galvanised. Children and 
ponies appeared from behind trees and hedges and tents. 
Mally mounted George and rode towards the ring. 

In five minutes it was over and Mally was back again. 
George had had no idea of bending. Nor Mally either. 
They had broken three poles on the way up and were 
disqualified. 

“We haven’t practised!” said Mally, trying to carry 
it off. 

But Velvet, busy saddling Mrs. James, made no reply. 

“Here’s Jacobi” said Edwina suddenly. Jacob sprang 
lightly against Mrs. James’s flank and grinned. “Mi must 
be here.” 

“Event Number Two 1” shouted the Voice, and Velvet 
mounted, and made for the Collecting Ring. Seeing 
Pendean Lucy waiting at the gate for the first heat, she 
thrust up beside her. The bar fell and Velvet, Lucy 
and three others, two boys and a fat little girl. 



126 “national velvet” 

were let out to the potato posts. 

“You know what to do?” shouted the Starter, his flag 
under his arm. “Leave the posts on your right ! Take the 
furthest potato first I . . 

Velvet tried to take it in but the trembling of Mrs. 
James distracted her attention. Mrs. James had broken 
already into a sweat of hysteria that had turned her grey 
coat steel-blue. 

They were lined up, the flag fell, and Mrs. James made 
a start of such violence that Velvet could not pull her up 
at the fifth post. Six strides were lost before they could 
turn. Lucy was cantering down the posts with her 
potato and Velvet heard the jingle of the bucket as 
the potato fell neatly into it. The heat was over, and 
Mrs. James, too big, too wild, too excited, too con- 
vinced that she was once again playing polo, was left 
three potatoes behind when the winner had drawn up 
beside the Starter. Pendean Lucy won the first heat. . . . 

“Five shillings gone . . muttered Velvet with 
humiliation as she trotted slowly back to the tree. Mi 
was there standing beside Sir Pericles. 

“Five shillings gone. Mi,” said Velvet aloud to him. 

“It's a gamble” said Mi. “Keep yer head. Afternoon’s 
young.” 

“Jumping . . .” said Mally. “It’s the jumping now. 
Which you jumping first?” 

“Sir Pericles.” 

The blazing sun had dried up the burnt grass and the 
afternoon shone like a diamond as Velvet sat on Sir 
Pericles in the Collecting Ring. Mi wormed his way 
between the crowds against the rope. Lucy came 
on her roan pony, but the pony refused at the Gate. 
Twice and three times, and she trotted back disqualified. 



“national velvet” 127 

A schoolboy in a school cap quartered in purple and 
white, rode out. His almost tailless pony jumped a clear 
round. Jacob wriggled with excitement between Mi’s 
legs. 

“Number Sixteen !” called the Broadcaster. 

Sixteen was Lucy’s elder sister, a fat girl in a bright 
blue shirt. 

“Blasted girl!” said Mi under his breath, as the blue 
shirt cleared the first and second jumps. His heart was in 
his mouth, but he spat whistlingly and joyfully between 
his teeth as the pony landed astride the wall, and 
scrambled over in a panic, heaving the wall upon its side. 

It seemed they would call every number in the world 
except Velvet’s. 

“Break her nerve, waiting!” grumbled Mi. He could 
see her cotton hair bobbing as she sat. 

A small girl came, with pigtails. A little shriek burst 
from her throat each time her chestnut pony rose at a 
jump. The plaits flew up and down, the pony jumped 
like a bird. A clear round. 

“Hell!” said Mi. “Two clear rounds.” 

“Number Fifteen!” 

Out came Velvet from the black gap between the 
crowds. Sir Pericles arched his neck, strained on his 
martingale, and his long eyes shone. He flirted his feet in 
his delicious doll’s canter and came tittupping down over 
the grass. Velvet in her cotton frock, stood slightly in the 
stirrups, holding him short, — then sat down and short- 
ened her reins still more. Mi’s stomach ran to soup. 

“Got her stirrups in her armpits ...” sighed Mi 
approvingly. “Little swell 1” 

There was nothing mean, nothing poor about Sir 
Pericles. He looked gay as he raced at the first jump. 



1*8 “national velvet” 

“Too fast, too fast 1” said Mi, praying with his soul. 

The horse was over safely and had his eyes fastened on 
the next jump. 

“Haul ’im in, haul ’im in 1” begged Mi of the empty 
air. “He’ll rocket along . . .” He saw Velvet’s hands 
creep further up the reins, and her body straighten 
itself a little. The horse’s pace decreased. It was the 
double jump, the In-and-Out. Sir Pericles went over it 
with his little hop, — one landing and one take-off. Mi 
saw Velvet glance behind, — but nothing fell. And the 
Gate. The Gate was twelve paces ahead. 

He cleared the Gate with one of his best jumps, an 
arc in the air, with inches to spare. 

“He’ll do the wall,” said Mi with relief. 

He did the wall, but a lathe fell at the stile. Half a 
fault. She was out of it then. Mi yawned with fatigue. 
He had held his breath. His lungs were dry. Jacob was 
gone from between his legs. He looked round. 

“Bitches . . he murmured vaguely, then turned 
again to the ropes to wait for the piebald. 

There were no more clear rounds till the piebald came, 
and when it came a murmur went up from the villagers 
who stood in the crowd. 

“Jumping that animal !” said a voice. 

“Why that’s the one she won at the Raffle 1” 

The piebald strode flashing into the sun. He paused, 
stood still, and gazed round him. Velvet’s knees held 
him steadily, and she sat behind his raised neck without 
urging him on. 

“I don’t expect anything . . she whispered. “Do 
what you can. Keep steady. You’re all right.” 

“You next,” said a man at the bar of the Collecting 
Ring. “You waiting for anything?” 



“national velvet” 129 

“I’m going,” said Velvet quietly. “He just wants to 
look round.” 

Ivli saw them come down the grass, the piebald trotting 
with a sort of hesitation. 

“He’s in two minds whether he’ll bolt,” thought Mi. 

“Showy horse . . .” said a spectator. 

“Butcher’s girl . . .” said another. “The youngest. 
Got a seat, ’ant she?” 

The piebald’s best eye was towards the crowd, his 
white eye to the centre of the field. 

The trot broke hesitatingly into a canter, but the 
horse had no concentration in him. He looked childishly 
from side to side, hardly glancing at the jump ahead. 

“He’ll refuse,” said Mally, who had arrived at Mi’s 
side. But Ivli made no answer. 

Sir Pericles had jumped like a trained horse. The 
piebald’s jumping was a joke. Arrived at the jump in 
another two paces, he appeared to be astonished, planted 
his forelegs for a second, looked down, trembled, then 
leapt the little bush and rail with all four legs stiff in the 
air together. Dropping his hindquarters badly he came 
down on the rail and broke it in two. 

“Two faults,” said Mi. 

“Only two for breaking that?” 

“Hind feet. Only two.” 

Again the piebald trotted, flashing, his grass-fed belly 
rounded, and his shoulders working under the peculiar 
colour of his hide. 

“Why don’t she canter ’im?” said a voice. 

Mi turned on the voice. “First time he’s seen anything 
but his own grazing. It’s a miracle if she gets him round.” 

“The In-and-Out’ll finish him,” said Mally under her 
breath. 



Ijo “national velvet ” 

The piebald jumped willingly into the In-and-Out, 
then paused, and remained inside. 

A shout of laughter went up from the crowd. 

“Oh . * . poor Velvet . . .” murmured Malvolia, 
agonized. 

The piebald attempted to graze, as though he were in a 
sheep pen, and again the crowd laughed. 

“She’s handling him gentle,” said Mi. “She’s trying 
to keep him thinking he’s a winner. She’s backin’ him, 
see. ... I don’t believe he’s ever backed a pace before.” 
The piebald had backed two paces till his quarters lay 
against the first jump of the In-and-Out. With a light 
heart he responded to his rider, and with a spring he was 
out again and cantering on. 

“Do they count that as a fault?” 

“I don’t know,” said Mi. “Watch out . . . now. . . . 
It’s the Gate.” 

The piebald broke the gate. He would have liked a 
stout, stone wall, but this flimsy thing that stood up 
before him puzzled him and he did his goat-jump. All 
four legs in the air at once and landed back upon the 
lathes and broke them. 

“That horse is breaking up the field,” said a voice. 

Mi glared. “He’s knocked his hock,” said Mi, “that’ll 
learn him.” For the piebald limped a pace or two. It 
learnt him. Unlettered as he was he had no thought of 
refusing. He saw the friendly wall ahead, and taking it 
to be enduring flint he went for it with a glare of interest, 
ears pricked and eyes bright. The wall was three foot six. 
He leapt five. For a second it seemed to the crowd as 
though the horse had nothing to do with the wall but was 
away up in the air. A little cheer went up and hands 
clapped in a burst. 



“national velvet” 131 

“Don’t she ride him!” said the voice. “It’s that Velvet 
girl. The ugly one.” 

“What, that kid with the teeth?” 

“That’s who it is.” 

Mi knew that Mally’s beauty stood beside him and he 
resented it. He half turned his shoulder on her. While 
Velvet sat the piebald he thought her the loveliest thing 
on earth. Like Dan, his father, he hardly saw the feces of 
women. 

“Hullo, she’s missed the stile 1” 

“Did he refuse?” asked Mi, keenly. 

“I don’t think she saw it,” said Mally. “She simply 
rode on.” 

The judge waved his stick and called to a Starter. 
Velvet cantered, glowing, radiant, to the exit gate. The 
man who held the exit spoke to her and pointed. Velvet 
looked behind her, paused, then shook her head. 

“Not coming . . .’’shouted the man to the Steward. 

After a brief pause . . . 

“The last Competitor,” announced the Broadcaster, 
“did not complete the round.” 

“Why ever didn’t she 1” said Mally, as she and Mi left 
the rope to fight their way round to the tree. They 
scrambled out from the crowd and ran. 

Velvet was standing looking at the piebald as though 
bemused. Merry, her face happy with pride, was holding 
the horses. 

“Marvellous, Velvet, to get him round !” said Mally, 
coming up. “Why didn’t you jump the last jump?” 

Velvet turned and looked, and Mi could see how her 
face was s hinin g. 

“I thought I’d better not,” she said gently. 

“Why?” 



13 Z “national velvet’ 5 

“He did the wall so beautifully I thought he’d better 
end on that.” 

In a flash Mi felt again what she was made of. That she 
could take a decision for her horse’s good and throw 
away her own honours. 

“It was the right thing to do,” said Mi. 

Edwina arrived. “What made you miss the Stile?” 

Velvet said nothing. 

“People near me thought you’d funked it,” said 
Edwina half indignantly. “You must have bin asleep to 
go and miss it.” 

“She’s no more asleep ’n my eye,” said Mi. And Mi’s 
little eye, like an angry sapphire, raked Edwina till she 
shuffled her shoulder and itched. 

“It’s you, Edwina, now 1” said Mally looking at the 
torn programme. “On Mrs. James. Bending.” 

“A lot of chance I have !” said Edwina. “Mrs. James’ll 
break every pole.” 

“She gets rough and excited,” said Velvet. 

“But it’s Adult!” said Merry. “They won't have 
nippy ponies. It’ll be easier.” 

But the Adults were seated on the smallest ponies they 
could ride. They looked like giants on dogs. Every 
grown-up was riding his sister’s pony, and Mrs. James, 
galloping like a wild animal, nostrils blowing and eye 
rolling, broke all the poles she could break. Edwina led 
her back without a word, disgusted and silent. 

It began to rain. Merry put a sack round her shoulders 
and pulled out the Canary Breeder’s Annual. Edwina left 
them and went towards the tent. 

“She got any money? ’’said Mally, looking after her keenly, 

“Can’t have,” said Velvet. “She was broke yesterday.” 

“P’raps she’s got twopence for an Idris. Wish to God I 



“national velvet” 135 

bad a crunchie,” muttered Mally. 

“Kandy Korner’s got a stall here,” said Merry, reading. 
“What’s happening now?” 

“It’s the tea interval,” said Velvet gloomily. They had 
won nothing. They had made not a penny. They owed 
Mi thirty bob. 

The rain slid, tapping, through the branches, and 
swept in windy puffs across the field. 

It made a prison for them, it pressed them into a comer 
of life, a corner of the heart. They were hung up. 
Velvet was hung up in life. Where was she? A butcher’s 
daughter, without money, in debt, under suzerainty, an 
amateur at her first trial of skill, destined that night to 
a bed of disappointment among the sleeping canaries. 
She did not think like that. But cared only that the 
piebald had jumped one jump as she had dreamt he might 
jump, with power, with crashing confidence. He was 
ignorant but he had no stage nerves. Of her own powers 
she had no thought. 

Staring out into the lines of rain lightly she lifted her 
hands and placed them together in front of her, as though 
she held the leathers. So acute was the sensation of the 
piebald beneath her that she turned with surprise to see 
him standing under the dripping branches. A look of 
simplicity and adoration passed into her face, like the look 
of the mother of a child who has won honours. She had 
for him a future. 

The rain came down in long knitting needles. Back- 
wards and forwards blew the needles, as the wind puffed. 
Wet horses, wet mackintoshes, wet dogs, wet flapping 
of tents, and then as the storm was rent a lovely flushing 
of light in the raindrops. Wind blew the sky into hollows 
and rents. 



I 34 


NATIONAL VELVET 


?> 


<c 


“That Violet that Mi met she’s at Kandy Corner,” 
said Merry. “Serving with them for a week on 
appro.” 

“We can’t borrow from her if she’s only on appro. 
She’ll get into trouble.” 

“Mi,” said Velvet, looking round the tree, “you round 
there? Is it dryer there?” 

“No.” 

“Your Violet’s with Kandy Korner. Got a stall down 
here.” 

Silence. Displeasure. 

“You couldn’t touch her for another twopence.” 

“Not till I see daylight with that thirty bob.” 

Edwina had gone off with one of the mackintoshes. 
The saddles were heaped under the other. Merry, Mally 
and Velvet flattened themselves, shivering, against the 
tree-trunk. 

“There’s mother 1” said Velvet suddenly. 

Across the field, swaying like a ship at sea, came 
the red and yellow meat van. 

“She’s brought tea!” said Merry. 

“She’ll thread my needle!” said Velvet. 

Mally ran out into the open and waved. The van nosed 
and swayed towards them. 

“Father’s driving! If he stops . . . He’ll never let 
you race. Velvet!” 

“Stop him buying the programme if you can! Here, 
tear ours . . . give him the wrong half I Then he won’t 
buy another.” 

Velvet snatched up the programme and tore a little 
piece out with her thumb-nail. The van drew up under 
the tree. Mi opened the door and the giant bulk of Mrs. 
Brown descended backwards. 



“national velvet” 135 

“We’ve done nothing, mother! Nothing at all!” said 
MaHy. 

“That’s bad,” said Mrs. Brown. “Here’s your tea.” 

“I’m not stopping,” said Mr. Brown, from the wheel. 
“There’s a sugar box in the back. Pull it out for your 
mother to sit on. You’re wet through, the lot of you. 
You ought to come home.” 

“Coats is soppy,” said Mrs. Brown. “How’s your 
vests?” 

“Dry,” said Velvet, edging away. “Dry’s a bone.” 

“You stay for one more race or whatever you call it,” 
said Mr. Brown, “an’ then you’ll take them hosses home. 
I’ll be back to fetch mother.” 

“But we’ve PAID . . began Velvet in horror. The 
self-starter whirred and he was gone. 

“Does he mean it, mother?” 

“You’re dripping,” said Mrs. Brown, cutting up a 
Madeira cake. “Mi, come round here an’ get some food.” 

The cake grew wet even as they ate it 

“What’s the next?” said mother. “Gimme the list.” 
She studied it for a moment, 

“That’s next, mother,” said Velvet, pointing. 

“Was your name in it?” asked Mrs. Brown looking at 
the hole. 

“Yes ... it was. ’Tis ” 

There was a long pause and Mrs. Brown slowly stroked 
her chin. Mi looked down on her old felt hat in which a 
pool of rain was settling. Velvet ran one nail under the 
other and shot out a piece of earth. 

“I’ll thread your needle,” said Mrs. Brown at last. 

Velvet looked into the heavy eyes and smiled. The 
eyes blinked with the violence and worship of the 
glance. 



136 “national velvet” 

The voice of the Broadcaster came roughly through 
the wind and rain. 

“Event Number Five,” said the Voice . . . “Com- 
petitors for Event Number Five . . . go to the Collecting 
Ring.” 

Sir Pericles was saddled in a moment, and Mrs. Brown 
rose to her feet. 

“Where’d I stand?” she asked. 

“Mi’ll take you. Mi ! It’s right far up there.” 

Mrs. Brown walked like a great soldier up the field. 

In Velvet’s heat she was the only child. She rode out 
of the gate of the Collecting Ring with four others, — 
two livery-stable-men from Worthing, a grizzled woman 
with short hair and a hanging underlip, and a young 
man in checks on a hired horse with poverty streaks. 

“I’ve plenty of chance,” she thought, “I’m lighter 
than any of them.” All the horses were dripping and 
began to steam with excitement. 

“Be slippery at the corner there,” said one of the 
livery-stable-men. 

They reached the starting post, and the sodden Starter 
came down towards them. 

The faces, shining in the rain, looked back at him. 
The young man in the check suit lay up on the inside 
against the rail. The woman with the hanging lip 
scowled at him and edged her horse nearer. Velvet 
came next, and on the outside the two stable-men. 
The flag was raised. Before it could fall the young man 
made a false start. While he was getting back into 
position the grizzled woman took his place. 

“Don’t shove!” said the young man, but the woman 
made no reply. Up went the flag again and the bounding 
of Velvet’s heart swept Sir Pericles forward. 



“national velvet” 137 

“Get back . . . that child l” shouted the Starter. 

Velvet swung Sir Pericles back behind the line and 
brought him up. The flag fell again neatly as she got him 
square. She drove for the centre of the first hurdle. 
Out of the corner of her eye she saw the grizzled woman’s 
horse run out. The young man in the checks she never 
saw again. Perhaps he never started. As she landed she 
saw a horse and man on the ground beside her. The heat 
was between Velvet and one livery-stable-man. 

Sir Pericles, the little creature, brilliant and honest, 
never looked to right or left but stayed where Velvet 
drove him, straight at the middle of each hurdle. He 
fled along the grass, jumping as neatly as a cat, swung 
round the sharp, uphill corner towards the table where 
the sewers stood, Velvet kicking the stirrups free, neck 
and neck with the livery-man on a blue roan. The roan 
drew ahead. The sewers’ table neared. Velvet flung 
herself off as they drew up; her feet ran in the air, then 
met the ground and ran beside the horse. 

“What have you got off for?” said Mrs. Brown calmly, 
as she began to sew. 

Velvet glanced with horror at her rival, leaning from 
his saddle while a tall girl sewed at his sleeve. “Oh . . 
she breathed. She had forgotten the instructions. She 
had had no need to dismount. 

But Mrs. Brown’s needle flashed in and out, while the 
blue roan fidgeted and danced, and the tall girl pivoted 
on her feet. 

It was an easy win for Velvet. She was in the saddle, 
off, and had time to glance behind, before the roan had 
started. She heard his galloping feet behind her but he 
never caught her up and Sir Pericles went steadily down 
the grassy slope, jumping his hurdles with willing care. 



I J 8 “national velvet” 

A burst of clapping and cheers went up* 

“Stay in the field !” said a Steward. “Wait for the other 
heats to be run.” Velvet sat alone in the rain, in a cloud 
of steam from the excited horse. One by one the winners 
of the three heats joined her. 

The first was a boy of about nineteen, with a crooked 
jaw. Steaming and shining and smiling he rode up to her 
on a brown horse with a hunter-build, long tail and mane. 

“You did a good one!” he said to her. 

“I’d only one to beat,” she said, “and even then it 
was the button that did it. 

“That’s a beautiful little horse,” said the boy. “He’s 
neat” 

They turned to watch the finish of the next heat. 

They were joined by a fat little man in a bowler hat, 
a dark grey riding coat and soaking white breeches. He 
took off his bowler as he rode towards them and mopped 
his shining bald head. His horse was a grey. 

“What a horse . . he said as he rode up. “I hired 
him. Couldn’t hold him fer a minute. Just went slap 
round as though he’d got a feed at the winning post. 
I’ll never pull it off a second time, not unless he chooses 
to! Lands on his head too, every time. Not a bit of 
shoulder.” 

“The saddle looks too big for him,” said the boy. 
“It’s right up his neck. But he’s a grand goer.” 

“It’s right up his neck, an’ so’m I,” said the little 
man, dismounting. “It’s the way he jumps. Next round 
I’ll be down and off and rolling out of your light ! Here’s 
the last I It’s Flora Banks !” 

“Who’s she?” said the boy. 

“Tough nut from Bognor,” said the little man under 
his breath. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


a 




*39 


Flora Banks wore a yellow waistcoat, had a face like 
a wet apple and dripping grey hair. She rode astride on 
a bay horse that looked like a racer, lean and powerful 
and fully sixteen hands. Velvet’s heart sank. 

“My poor Flora,” said the little man calmly, bringing 
out a match, “you’ve got an overreach. You’re out of it!” 

The Tough Nut was off her bay in a second, flung 
her cigarette into the grass and knelt and took the bleeding 
forefoot tenderly in her hands. The big bay hung his 
head like a disappointed child. He was out of it. She led 
him, limping, away. 

“Makes us three,” said the little man, mopping his 
head. Two really. I can’t last another round. You go 
it, little girl, an’ get the fiver. Hi, they’re calling us.” 

Down went the three horses to the starting post, 
reins slipping in cold fingers, rain whirling in puffs. 
Velvet’s breath would not sink evenly on the downward 
stroke. She shuddered as she breathed. 

“Lay up against the rails, little girl,” said the bowler 
hat. “I’m so fast you can’t beat me whatever you do, 
but I’m coming off. Where’s that Starter? Goin’ to keep 
our hearts beating while he drinks his coffee? Hi, where’s 
that Starter? The blighter’s drinkin’ coffee !” 

The Starter burst out of a little tent wiping his mouth 
and ran through the raindrops, that suddenly grew less. 
The miraculous sun broke all over the soaking field. 
The freshness was like a shout. Velvet shaded her eyes, 
for the start was into the west. Water, filled with light, 
shone down the grass. The flag was raised and fell. 

The boy on the brown horse got a bad start. Velvet 
and the little man rose together at the first hurdle. 
Velvet had the inside and the grey lay behind her. At 
the second hurdle she heard him breathe, then lost him. 



140 “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

At the slight curve before the third hurdle he had drawn 
up on her inside, between her and the rail. She had lost 
her advantage. 

Suddenly the boy on the brown appeared on her left. 
Both the grey and the brown drew ahead and Velvet 
strung out a near third. Like hounds over a wall they 
rose, one, two, three over the fourth hurdle and went 
sweeping round the uphill curve to the table. 

Mrs. Brown stood like an oak tree. Velvet galloped 
and drew up in a stagger beside her, throwing the single 
rein loose on Sir Pericles 7 neck. She stooped and hung 
over him, kicking both feet free from the stirrups to 
steady him. Trembling, panting, his sides heaving in and 
out he stood, his four feet still upon the ground, like a 
bush blown by a gale but rooted. Mrs. Brown's needle 
flashed. 

Velvet was off, stirrups flying, down the grass hill, 
the blazing light no longer in her eyes, going east. 
First the grey, then the brown, were after her. At the 
fifth hurdle the grey passed her, but the brown never 
drew near. The grey was wound up to go. Its hind 
quarters opened and shut like springs in front of her. 
She saw it rise at the sixth hurdle just ahead of her, and 
come down almost upon its head. It slowed. As she 
drew up she saw the little man was done, stretched up 
unnaturally on its neck. He took a year falling. She 
passed him while he was still at it — jumped the seventh 
and eighth hurdles and whispered to herself as the noise 
went up behind the ropes, “A fiver . . And the 
piebald's glistening future spread like a river before her, 
the gates of the world all open. She pulled up, flung 
herself off Sir Pericles and glanced down at his feet. 

He was all right. And the Steward was examining her 



“national velvet” 141 

button . . . That was all right too! Here came the 
sisters . . . The little man in the bowler, unhurt, was 
leading his horse down the track. Mrs. Brown . . . 
Where was mother? Mi was by her side. 

“Lead him off! Don’t stand there! You look daft,” 
said Mi lovingly, and his little blue eye winked and 
shone. “Good girl, Velvet !” said Mr. Croom as she 
neared the exit. And hands patted her and voices called. 

The ruthless voice of the Broadcaster was gathering 
competitors for the next event. 

* * * * 

“Thirty shillings is yours. Mi.” 

“You’ll have to give me forty. I want ten to get me 
teeth out of pawn.” 

“You put them in again?” 

“I had to. Hadn’t nothing.” 

“How is it they’re so valuable. Mi?” 

“Mass o’ gold. My old Dad got ’em done. He said, 
‘You always got money on you if you got gold in your 
mouth.’ I can raise ten shillings on them most towns.” 

“You whistle better without them.” 

“Yes, I do,” said Mi. “Where’s that Jacob?” 

It was the evening, before supper. They had turned 
the horses into the field after a good meal, and the 
piebald in with them. He had shown no sign of kicking. 
He trotted happily about among the new companions, 
his tail raised in an arch and his nostrils blown out with 
excitement. Velvet leant on the gate and Mi stood beside 
her. The others had gone home before them down the 
road, clinking the buckets. 

“Sir Pericles was lovely,” said Velvet for the twentieth 
time. Mi was tired of grunting assent. The reddest sun 



142 “national velvet” 

that ever sank after a wet day went down behind them 
and sent streams of light through rushes and branches. Mi 
shaded his eyes to look for Jacob, that thorn in his side. 

“Was The Lamb really only fourteen-two?” asked 
Velvet casually. 

“Some say fourteen-two. Some say fifteen.” 

“Smallest horse ever won the National, wasn't he?” 

“Won it twice.” 

“You ever bin round there?” 

“The course? Know every stick. Been on it hundreds 5 
a times.” 

“What’s the highest jump?” 

Mi gazed into the field. He stuck his chin towards 
the piebald. “He jumped as high as any to-day.” 

“I thought he did,” said Velvet, low and happy. 

There was a long silence. The fields rolled uphill. The 
hedge at the top of the field was indigo. Sir Pericles was 
cropping, like a tawny shadow against it. The piebald, 
disturbed and excited, cantered the length of the hedge, 
neighing. Sir Pericles looked up, kicked gaily at the 
empty air, and cantered too. Mrs. James rolled an eye 
and laid her ears back. 

Evenings, after triumphs, are full of slack and fluid 
ecstasy. The air swims with motes, visions dip into 
reach like mild birds willing to be caught. Things are 
heavenly difficult, but nothing is impossible. Here stood 
gazing into the field in the sunset the Inspirer, the 
Inspired and, within the field, the Medium. 

Under his boil of red hair Mi’s thoughts were chattering 
“Why not?” 

And beside him Velvet looked, throbbing with belief, 
at her horse. 

“Pity you don’t ride,” said Velvet at last. 



“national velvet” 143 

“The rider’s all right/’ said Mi mystically. 

“What rider?” 

“You.” 

A pause. 

“There’s jockeys from Belgium/’ said Mi following 
the insane thread of thought* “no one’s ever seen before. 
Who’s to know?” 

“You think he could do it?” 

“The two of you could do it.” 

“Mi . . . oh* Mi . . 

Pause. 

“Who’d you write to? Per entries.” 

“Weatherby’s.” 

“Where are they?” 

“Telephone book. London somewhere.” 

“Weatherby’s.” 

There are evenings, full of oxygen and soft air* 
evenings after rain (and triumph) when mist curls out 
of the mind* when reason is asleep* stretched out on a 
low beach at the bottom of the heart, when something 
sings like a cock at dawn* a longdrawn wild note. 

Velvet and Mi dreamed a boldness bordering on madness . 

The race was being run in stage light, under the lamps 
of the mind. The incandescent grass streamed before 
Velvet’s eyes. There was an unearthly light around the 
horses* their rumps shone. The white of the painted 
rails was blue-white like ice. The grass snaked in green 
water under the horses’ feet. There was a thunder 
rolling in the piebald like a drum. His heart* beating 
for the great day of his life. 

“Weatherby’s*” said Velvet again. The word was a 
gateway to a great park. You could touch it* crisp, 
crested* full of carving . . . Weatherby’s . Green grass* 



144 “national velvet” 

white rails, silk jackets. Through the arch ofWeatherby’s. 

“Who’s to know I’m a girl?” said Velvet, very very 
far along the road. 

Mi was not far behind her. 

“Just wants thinking out,” he said. His belly felt 
hollow with the night air. “Supper, Velvet.” Slowly 
they left the gate and walked towards the village. 

* * * * 

“Once I caught a dove/’ said Donald, sitting up to 
supper on the gymkhana night. 

“Oh no,” said Mrs. Brown absently. 

“I did,” said Donald. “It was in . . . July. When 
you was in France.” 

“Never bin to France but once,” said Mrs. Brown. 
And suddenly the soles of her feet tingled with the sting 
of Calais cobbles, slipping, slipping under her tired 
weight. Memories surged up. In the air tonight, this 
gymkhana night, when little Velvet had touched the tail 
of glory, there was something abroad. 

“It was on the roof,” said Donald. 

(Coming up out of the water in the early dawn after 
a gale . . .) 

“I put a ladder up. A man gave it to me. I caught it 
in my hand.” 

Silence . . . 

“I EAT it,” said Donald quietly, and looked round. 

“Poor dove,” said Velvet kindly, as nobody said 
anything. 

“It said I could eat it,” said Donald. 

(The water had been kinder than the beach. She had 
been exposed in front of thousands, dripping, huge, 
shapeless, tired. She had been held up by her soaking 



“national velvet” 145 

legs and chaired to the hotel. The battle with the water 
had been pure and dark, but in the morning she began 
to wonder why she had done it. Dan had been pleased. 
It was for Dan that she had done it. He had made a war- 
fare between the water and her strength and courage. 
She had never thought of the crowds on the beach, the 
cameras, and newspapers. She had a sense of honour 
and chastity as sharp as a needle, and she had been 
outraged. Great burning virgin as close as an oyster 
and dark as the water at night. Stupid, fierce, honourable, 
strong and courageous. She and Dan could have opened 
a new world together, he directing, she enduring. She 
could have been a great mare whom a jockey rode to 
victory. Dimly behind the hooded eyes of the innocent 
and savage mother those aspirations washed.) 

“It was that dove that made me sick . , said 
Donald. 

“Shut up with that dove/’ said Mr. Brown, reading 
his paper. 




R 


Chapter IX 

After three days of gale the sea’s surface lay in an oily, 
moulded condition, yellow as clay, folds thick as treacle 
and casting shadows. Gulls tipped in the dun valleys 
and rose on the crests. No water broke. The clouds 
tumbled and heaved, subsiding, and shadows like the 
shadows of creatures streaked the sea. 

After imprisonment of wind and rain the washing flew 
in banners down the gardens. Velvet mouched about 
the village, basking, her clothes and face dappled with 
sun. Little boys carried tyres to the yellow sea and 
floated in them. The village stank of seaweed. 

By the head of the shore stood a singing mendicant, 
mouth yapping aimlessly, emitting a thread of aged sound. 

Edwina walked lightly down the street with Teddy. 
Teddy carried his beach gramophone and Edwina’ s 
bathing dress. They waved to Velvet leaning on the 
cobbled wall and went down the gap to the beach. They 
did not want her and she did not want them, there was 
nothing sad about that. 

There are pleasures earlier than love. A may tree, a 
cat’s back will evoke them. Earlier than love, nearer 
heaven. As Velvet leant on the wall and heard the cries 
of Teddy’s gramophone she would not have changed 
her bliss for theirs. 

She turned and saw Meredith coming towards her and 
the two watched the gulls idly, side by side. 

“I could eat,” said Meredith yawning. 

“M’m,” said Velvet. She held the money bags. 

146 



“NATIONAL VELVET” 147 

After she had given Mi the forty shillings she had 
put three pounds in the Post Office Savings Bank. But 
Mr. Brown, pleased with the performance at the gym- 
khana, had given her five shillings. She had wanted to 
bank this too but there had been outcry among the sisters. 

“Come on. Velvet/ 5 urged Meredith. Velvet pulled 
out two shillings, and laid them in a crack on the top 
of the wall. One of the shillings she put back again. 

“We 5 ll have one between us. 55 

“Doughnuts? 55 

“We can 5 t eat six doughnuts each. 55 

“We 5 ll have, 55 said Merry, “one doughnut each, one 
candlegrease bun, one crunchy, one Mars . . , 55 

“I should be sick, 55 said Velvet decidedly. 

“Perhaps sixpence between us is enough. One dough- 
nut each, and one crunchy. 55 

“You go an 5 get ’em. An 5 bring me back the sixpence. 55 

Velvet lolled happily on the hot wall, just tickled and 
touched awake by the idea of approaching food. The 
juices in her mouth got ready. An aeroplane flew over 
her head, spewing advertisements in smoke. She turned 
on her back with her shoulders over the wall to read 
what it wrote. 

“Buy Nougat Nobs 55 she read, written across the pale 
blue seat of God. 

“Did you see the aeroplane? 55 said Merry suddenly 
beside her. “1 got Nougat Nobs instead of crunchies. 55 

“Well you can have ’em,’ 5 said Velvet. “It’ll bust 
my blessed plate. 55 

“Thanks, 55 said Merry contentedly, not protesting. 

Meredith somnolent, loved her food, lived in dreams, 
loved her canaries, was inaccurate, incurable, and never 
quarrelled. 



148 “national velvet” 

Standing against the sunny wall she was soon over- 
eaten* and undid the ends of her hard leather belt. The 
screaming of the canaries never really ceased for Mere- 
dith. As she eat slowly her head was full of yellow wings. 
Dreadnoughts and Rollers and Hartz Mountain and 
mating. Mating was her preoccupation. If you mated a 
Hartz Mountain to a Roller ... or a Yorkshire Dread- 
nought — What about the green streaks on the wings? 
Would they be increased if Mountain Jim were mated 
to Arabella? She leant back against the wall to ease her 
stomach and dreamt on. A child, when it is over-eaten, 
does not get a clouded brain. 

In her mind the mating always took place safe and 
sure and certain, and with instant results. She saw a 
long line of descendants almost simultaneously created. 
She felt the power of the Patriarch, looking down her 
family line, and rambling, slow and vague she told a 
story to herself. Her memory tracks were scored by the 
noise of their songs wherever she walked. Constantly 
she was eased by dreams and sensations of flight. Some 
day she would construct a real aviary, real trees inside 
the wire netting, and would walk inside the bird house 
and call the birds off the branches on to her shoulders. 

“Where’s that sixpence?” said Velvet suddenly. 

Meredith handed her fourpence. 

“I got an extra two doughnuts,” she said. “I was 
simply frightfully ...” 

“What?” said Velvet. 

“Hungry,” said Merry. 

There was a long, sun-warmed, friendly silence. 

“I wish I could eat like that,” said Velvet with a sigh. 

“You’re nearly the youngest. You’re weak,” said 
Merry, fallacious tags of breeding in her mind. “You 



NATIONAL VELVET 


149 


u 




can breed a hen right out.” 

“Mother’s not bred out. Just look at her!” said 
Velvet, irking. “And Donald’s not weak !” 

“I shouldn’t think strength matters,” said Merry 
yawning. “It’s guts.” 

“Mother says I’ll get over being sick,” said Velvet. 
How often had she had assurance from the c alm and 
rocklike eyes. Above the paunchy cheeks, eyes that 
held neither anxiety nor alarm. Mrs. Brown watched 
the growth of Velvet as God might watch a sapling’s 
growth; without concern, with unheeding conviction. 
She would grow, she would cease to be sick. Like Merry, 
if Mrs. Brown had been asked what her hope and 
expectancy in life was for Velvet she would have answered 
“guts.” It was what Dan Taylor had required of her, end- 
lessly, all through the night. Against the tide too. Father 
must see to the fal-lals and the gold plates. She, Dan’s 
Araminty, only wanted staying power. 

“You weren’t sick at the gymkhana,” said Merry. 
“I forgot to expect you to be.” 

“1 prayed an’ prayed,” said Velvet. 

“D’you think that’s any good?” 

“Not much. Because 1 always do it. But I don’t 
dare leave it out.” 

Merry flicked a grain of flint down towards Edwina’s 
head. It missed. Edwina stretched herself in the sun 
below the wall and put her arms behind her head. 

“Don’t,” said Velvet. “She’ll make a row. We’re so 
comfy.” 

“Pity she’s getting a sort of enemy,” said Merry. 

“It’s because she’s in love.” 

“But why . . . ?” 

“It just turns you. Like drink.” 



150 “national velvet” 

In happy silence they watched the silver enemy below 
them her ash hair pillowed on her coffee arms. Teddy 
looked at her like a gooby. She flung a word to him 
now and then, and the gramophone, pushed into a hollow 
in the cobbles, sang on. “It’s lovely that noise,” said 
Velvet dreamily, and licked the last stub of crunchy. 

There was a sound of hooves behind them and three 
horses came round the comer from the livery stables, 
setting out for the Hullocks. 

Merry and Velvet swung round and leant, backs to 
the sea, on the wall to watch. 

“What’s the matter with people who can’t ride?” said 
Merry. 

“Dunno,” said Velvet. 

They watched the riders intently. 

“Nothing’s right,” said Velvet. 

“Look as though they were kneeling,” said Merry. 
“Their knees are forward and their feet are back . . .” 

“You can see miles away on the Hullocks,” said 
Velvet half shutting her eyes. “They heave as the 
horse heaves. They have enormous legs, all loose.” 

“It must be awful,” said Meredith, “to ride like that.” 

The horses disappeared and sun and sparrows took 
their place. 

“Must be awful,” said Velvet after a while, “to be 
a livery horse.” 

Merry slid her feet into the sunny dust. It rose in a 
roll round the toes of her shoes and she said nothing. 

“It’s not what they’re born for.” 

“What are they born for?” 

“They’re simply born,” said Velvet rather suddenly, 
“to try to get to know what one person thinks. Their 
backs and their mouths are like ears and eyes. That’s 



NATIONAL VELVET 


55 


CC 


151 


why those horses move like that and hang their heads 
down from the wither like a steep hill.” 

“What horses?” 

“The livery ones. They’ve got broken hearts.” 

“How d’you know?” 

“Oh,” said Velvet, “I can see. It’s like seeing the dead 
go by.” 

“You once said you’d go in a livery stable when you 
grew up.” 

“I could never go in a livery stable,” said Velvet. 

The sun shone and warmed her. Velvet was in a state 
of abeyance, of waiting. She was a pond which stood 
empty but was certain of the mysterious, condensing dew. 

“I’m going home,” said Velvet, after a pause. 

“I’m waiting here,” said Meredith. 

Velvet left Meredith and slouched up the street. She 
looked in the shoe shop with an urge of heart. “Butcher’s 
Velvet,” thought Mr. Ede, and crossed the street to 
speak to her. 

“Piebald didn’ do too bad at the Pendean,” he said, 
stopping and looking at the shoes. He was hardly pre- 
pared for the beaming eyes that turned on him. “He’s 
beautiful, Mr. Ede,” said Velvet earnestly. “I hope you’ll 
never feel bad you let him go.” 

“Rough animal,” said Mr. Ede, embarrassed. “Bit 
mad p’r’aps. You done wonders to him. Wouldn’t stay 
in any field of mine.” 

“He’s settled down nicely,” said Velvet. “He’s a very 
boyish horse.” 

Mr. Ede passed this over as fanciful. He thought she 
looked queer too. Delicate and spiny. And all them 
teeth. In truth Velvet could look like a fairy wolf gone 
blond. She had this look as she turned back upon the 



IJ z “national velvet” 

shoes* Ede left her and Mi touched her on the shoulder. 

“Looked up Weatherby’s?” 

“ ’Tisn’t in the telephone book.” 

“Just write ‘Weatherby’s. Racin’ experts. London/ ” 
said Mi. “Just ask for the rules of entry.” 

“What’ll I say?” 

But Mi was in a hurry. He didn’t know. 

Her mind began its letter across tan and silver heels, 
plaid bedroom slippers and sea-shoes of canvas. She 
moved homewards, carrying disjointed words like broken 
crockery in a napkin. 

The spaniels were sitting, sunning, round the door, 
Wednesday's joint disturbing them already. The bitch 
laid her nose from time to time to the bottom door- 
line and drew long breaths and rolled her yellow eyes. 
The chained house dog flew out silently, choked on the 
end of his chain and fell back. 

The sitting-room was empty, mother in the kitchen. 
Velvet pulled her lesson books from the dresser drawer 
and found a sheet of foreign writing paper that had laid 
in the grammar book for months. The ink bottle was 
on the cactus shelf, the pen beside it. 

She sat and wrote swiftly, for fear of being disturbed: 

“Dear Sirs, 

“1 am an Owner of a Horse. Please could you send 
me the Rules of entering for the Grand National Race? 

“I am. Sirs, Your obedient Servant, 

“V. Brown.” 

There was a bit of blotting paper in the meat ledger, 
an envelope in the dresser drawer. In five minutes she 
was going back down the street with the letter stamped 



“national velvet” 155 

with a three ha’penny stamp, the letter addressed 
according to Mi’s advice. 

She and Mi met at the midday joint. She whispered: 
“I’ve done it.” 

“Written it?” 

“An’ posted it.” 

He seemed surprised. She could not eat. 

“I don’t like cabbage,” said Donald. 

He was not answered. 

“I don’t like it but I eat it,” he said looking at Velvet. 

“You’re a marvel,” said Mally. 

“Yes I am a marvel,” said Donald. “I don’t like 
cabbage, I don’t like food, but I eat it. Velvet doesn’t.” 

This provocation blew over. 

“Eat your food. Velvet,” said Mr. Brown after a 
suitable interval. “That plate sitting softer?” 

“Much,” said Velvet. “But I’m not hungry.” 

“I’m not hungry either,” said Donald, “but I eat my 
food. I eat it all up, even when I’m not hungry.” 

“I don’t like to see a great slice of English leg left like 
that,” said Mr. Brown. “If you can’t eat it lift it back.” 
The slice was returned to the dish. Velvet thought, as 
she chopped up her cabbage and hid it round her baked 
potato that the box at the post office had just been cleared. 

“You girls bin eating snacks?” said Mr. Brown, 
looking at Meredith’s plate. 

“I got gristle,” said Merry hurriedly, pushing with 
her fork, and dividing plot from plot. 

“Doughnuts,” said Mrs. Bown placidly. “They look 
like it.” 

‘Tay for ’em or put ’em down?” 

“Pay for ’eml” said Merry indignantly. 

“I’ll have no putting down,” said Mr. Brown. “Hand 



154 “national velvet” 

me that plate. Merry. You’re behaving like a customer.” 

Meredith got up and carried her plate to him. 

“That’s not gristle that’s fat,” said Mr. Brown. “You 
just carry that back and eat it up. If snacks in the mid- 
morning’s going to spoil a leg for you you better have 
no more of ’em. Ten sheep coming at four, Mi.” 

“Right,” said Mi. 

“To be killed?” said Donald. 

“Yes,” said Mi. 

“Why killed?” said Donald. 

“To make meat for you.” 

“For me?” 

“I said so.” 

“I want to see ’em be killed,” said Donald. 

“Well you can’t,” said his father. 

“Do they break an’ fall down and die?” 

No answer. 

“Who dies them?” 

“I do,” said Mr. Brown. “And Mi.” 

Donald looked at his father without the slightest 
disfavour but with added respect. 

“If there’s a sheep’s head for tonight give it me while 
it’s warm. Mi,” said Mrs. Brown. “You can’t cook it 
so tender once it’s chilled down.” 




Chapter X 


When the answer from Weatherby’s came it contained 
terrible difficulties. Velvet took it to Mi. 

“Oh God,” said Mi when he looked at the blue entry 
form. “I oughta known. It brings it all back.” Mi’s 
wicked knowledge of the North came over him in floods. 
“There’s this to be done ... an’ that . . . and this 
and that. . . . See if we can’t get round it. You’ll be 
disqualified in the end in any case my girl. Might as 
well be disqualified all round. All you want is the chance 
to do it. I wonder if we’re dotty.” 

“Who could you ask?” 

“AskI” said Mi. “Ask the churchwardens. You leave 
it to me. It’s Lewes races to-morrow. I’ll be over 
there and have a talk. .You get on with the animal. 
Leave a lot to me. An’ don’t talk !” 

“I never 1” 

Mi glanced at her a moment. He had been absorbed 
in his thought. 

“No, you don’t,” he said. “But D’wina’d hand it on 
to Teddy, and Merry’d forget she wasn’t to speak . . . 
An’ it may never happen. You’d best just get on with the 
animal if you think such a crack of it.” 

“Don’t you?” 

Mi heaved a big breath, first in then out of his lungs. 
“I think more of you,” he said in the end. 

“I’m nothing without him,” said Velvet. 

“Get on now,” said Mi. “An’ don’t keep asking me 
how I’m getting on. What’s more there’s another thing. 

155 



156 “national velvet” 

You might have a shot at the Tindles jumps in the 
mushroom valley.” 

“They’re all wired up.” 

“Yes, well I’d unwire ’em. Take some pliers. They’re 
a lazy lot over there now the horses are gone. There’s 
no one in the valley before seven.” 

September passed and October came. Velvet by now 
had grown bolder. She no longer rose in the dawn to 
fetch the piebald to the mushroom valley but took him 
in the red-haired Autumn under cold afternoon moons 
of October, on dew-drenched grass. The mushroom 
pickers cleaned the valley before dawn. No one came 
down from Tindles, the hill village of the Derby winner. 
The old man was old, old. His horses gone, his men 
lazy. He warmed his toes and looked at his Derby cup 
but kept indoors between the sideboard and the fire. 

Velvet grew so bold she ceased to replace the barbed 
wire over the jumps. The great brushwork barriers 
stood up free and clean and twice a week the piebald 
leapt them from end to end of the field. Sometimes Mi 
came with a bamboo rod and caught him a flick on his 
belly or his hock as he flew over. 

One day when his work was over he came in the 
evening with a spade and dug a pit before one of the 
jumps and dragged logs to lie at the lip of the pit to make 
the Pie take off earlier. He came back with Velvet in 
the morning early and she and the horse leapt the con- 
traption. After which Mi filled it in again and threw 
sods on it. 

“They’ll think we’ve buried someone,” said Velvet. 
“You do take a lot of trouble. Mi.” 

“Know what he’s just jumped?” said Mi, straightening 
his back. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


99 


*57 


<c 


“What?” 

“Jumped the third on the National Third jump’s a 
ditch an’ fence. Same as this one. I wrote to a chap on 
the railway up there for the measurements.” 

“Railway?” 

“Truckline. Runs on the raised embankment alongside 
the Course. You o’ny got to run down and measure.” 

Now the piebald jumped as he had jumped the five- 
foot wall when they had first seen him, hitching his 
quarters up behind him and leaving inches to spare. Not 
a twig on the jumps moved except from the wind of his 
passage. Velvet lay on his neck like the shadow of an 
ape and breathed her faith into him. 

One evening before supper. Mi and Velvet alone under 
the Albert lamp. Velvet read the accounts of races. The 
Cesarewitch. Prophecies about it beforehand. 

“ . . . the conditions will be ideal for all except the 
mudlarkers,” she read aloud. “What’s that, Mi?” 

“Dud talk o’ mutts,” said Mi. 

“ ‘Munition started so slowly he was always tailed’?” 

“The same,” said Mi. 

“And ‘he galloped the opposition down in grand style’.” 

“And the same,” said Mi. 

“Oh no!” said Velvet. “I like that! It’s what I’ll do. 
I’ll gallop the opposition down. It’s grand.” 

“If you like,” said Mi. 

“I do,” said Velvet. 

Silence. 

“We gotta call him something,” said Mi. 

“What? The piebald? Can’t we call him The Pie?” 

“If you like. It’s a mutt name.” 

“I’ll always call him The Pie. But if he’s got to have 
something grand . . .” 



15S "national velvet” 

"We gotta choose the name and choose racing colours 
and send up and ask Weatherby’s if they’ll pass ’em. 
Sooner the better. They’ll print ’em in the Calendar.” 

“I’ll have black and pink,” said Velvet. 

"You’ll look awful.” 

"Could we call him Unicorn?” said Velvet slowly. 

"That’s the sort,” said Mi. "Longish. Historical.” 

"Is Unicorn historical?” 

"Seems to me.” 

"He could just be Unicorn for the race?” 

"Yes he could. But he’ll be put down Unicom for 
ever in the history books.” 

"On’y if he wins. Mi . . .” 

"Win or no he goes down. Some of those books put 
every runner that ever ran. Starting with the "Lottery” 
year, with Jem Mason up. That was eighteen thirty- 
nine. Seventeen starters.” 

"You know a heap.” 

"Any chap knows anything knows the first Grand 
National.” 

"Lamp’s smoking. Mi.” 

Mi turned it down. 

"An’ Mi.” 

"M’m.” 

"I don’t like Unicorn.” 

"Well, think of something else.” 

"I’ll never like anything but The Piebald. It’s his 
name. He’s got to go in the books like that.” 

Mi looked up. The thin face opposite him had grief 
in it. 

"They weren’t all so grand,” he said at last. "There 
was Jerry M. and Shady Girl. An’ Old Joe won it in 
eighteen eighty-six. An’ there was Hunter an’ Seaman 



“national velvet” 159 

and Miss Lizzie, an’ the Doctor, an’ The Colonel . . . 
Why there was The Colonel ! He won it twice. You call 
him The Piebald an’ it won’t hurt. It’ll do fine.” 

Velvet gave him a look of love. “Thank you, Mi.” 
she murmured. 

“Here, take the papers,” said Mi, “an’ look at 
e m. 

“Gotta enter his sire and his dam,” said Velvet, poring 
over the Rules. 

“Well, that’s that,” said Mi yawning. 

“Whad’you mean that’s that?” said Velvet. “He’s 
got a sire and a dam somewhere, hasn’t he?” 

“Orphan. Horse is an orphan. Here, hand me the 
Rules 1” 

Mi drew the lamp nearer and leant his face deeply upon 
the little page. “In entering” . . . m’m . . . m’m . . . 
“he shall be described by stating a name,” . . . We gotta 
name. Settled. “The age he will be at the time of the 
race” . . . Blacksmith says he’s six. Might be more. 
We’ll put ‘aged.’ ” 

“That’s a horrid word.” 

“It’s fine. It means grown up. No more o’ them silly 
years. We’ll put c aged.’ ” 

“What’s next?” 

“The colour” . . . (they’ll cough a bit when they 
read he’s a piebald) “and whether a horse, mare or gelding, 
and the Calendar or Stud-Book names of his sire and 
dam. That’s where they get us !” 

“Oh Mi . . ” 

“Wait a bitl Tf the sire or dam has no name in the 
Calendar’ . . . wait a minute, wait a minute ... ‘or 
if the pedigree of the sire or dam be unknown, such 
further particulars as to where, when, and from whom the 



i6o “national velvet” 

horse was purchased or obtained must be given as will 
identify him.’ That’s us all right.” 

"What’ll you put? You can’t put about the shilling an’ 
the raffle.” 

“Make ’em sit up.” 

“Too much. They’ll sit up and see me!” 

“You’re right, yes. Pity though. Been a bit a fun. 
We’ll put ‘Bought from Thomas Ede, Farmer,’ an’ the 
date. Previous bought in Lewes Market. . . .” 

“That reads odd.” 

“You aren’t asked to state all the buys. We’ll leave it 
at Ede.” 

“Anything else?” 

“Not that I can see.” 

“S’shI Here’s the others I” 

* * * * 

Donald had out his jigsaws. He was doing a map of 
the world in big simple pieces. He could not get it 
started because two bits of the margin were missing. He 
begged and pleaded and nagged, “Will you help me? 
WILL you help me?” 

Merry helped him most. Mally stuck in a piece or two. 
Edwina bent over him and played the mother till she got 
bored. 

“There’s India!” said Edwina, skipping from mother 
to teacher. 

“All the pink bits, Donald, belong to England.” 

“What’s England?” 

“Us.” 

“There’s a pink bit and there’s . . . LOOK Donald 
. . . there’s a . . .” 

“D’you know,” said Donald looking at her with his 



“national velvet” 161 

earnest charm, “in my black socks I’ve got HOLES!” 

“Gool” said Edwina laughing suddenly. “An’ you 
haven’t any black socks either . . and looking up she 
saw Teddy’s face under the light of the lamp outside. 
She was gone with the swoop of a moth through the door. 

“Will you help me?” began Donald again, leaning 
towards Mally. Mally flicked a slice of wood towards 
him. “There’s England and France in that bit.” 

“What’s France?” 

“Over the water,” said Mally, chucking her thumb 
over her shoulder. “Over the sea.” 

“I seen France once,” said Donald. 

“No!” 

“I seen France once an’ all the houses were slipping 
down in the water.” 

“Huhl” said Mi. “He doesn’t know it’s land. Thinks 
it’s built on the Channel 1” 

“Bed, Donald,” said Mrs. Brown in the doorway. 

“I’m busy,” said Donald. “We’re all busy.” 

“Get on, Donald,” urged Mi. 

“Why do they have supper’n not me?” said Donald, 
feverishly searching for a piece of wood. 

* * * * 

Lewes races had long gone by. Mi had made his 
arrangements. He had met a friend here and a friend 
there and had a talk or two and borrowed a bit, had his 
week’s wages in advance from Mr. Brown, and finally 
had paid a visit to Croydon. Edwina didn’t notice. 
Merry didn’t ask, and Mally, her nose twitching, didn’t 
know enough to go upon, though sometimes she prodded 
like a person prodding with a stick in mud who thinks 
a treasure can be seen. 



1 62 “national velvet” 

One day Mi came to Velvet after supper. He whistled 
her out of the living-room with a suck of his tooth and 
a cock of his eye. “Sign this,” he said in Miss Ada’s 
stall, the private sitting-room of their lives. Miss Ada 
ate her bedding undisturbed. 

“What is it?” said Velvet. 

“It’s a Clearance,” said Mi. “You put "James Tasky’ 
here.” 

He had his pen in his hand and a glass bottle of ink. 

“Who’s James Tasky?” 

“He’s you. He will be you in a post or two. Just 
ask me nothing. Sign what I say.” 

Velvet wrote at the bottom of the paper ""James 
Tasky,” balancing the paper on the lip of the manger. 
Mi produced three inches of blotting paper from his 
pocket. 

""Now . . .” he said with satisfaction. "‘Now we post 
it . . . see? An’ we get a licence . . . see? An’ the real 
Mr. Tasky’s not even in England. What a catch !” 

“Where is he?” 

“Being sick on the Baltic, I shouldn’t wonder. He 
told me all about it. Horrible sea the Baltic. Water’s 
shallow and bumps on the bottom an’ comes up again. 
How people can go in ships beats me.” 

“We gotta have the name in by the second Tuesday 
in January,” said Velvet. 

""Say that on the form?” 

“Yes.” 

“Well, we’ll have it in. We’ve put our backs in this 
now, and our shirts an’ all. What d’you call it? about 
that horse? Putting it what?” 

""Putting The Piebald in history,” said Velvet. ""I 
think of that whenever I feel giddy and it stops.” 



“national velvet” 1 63 

“Well Fm putting you in history. See? Like my old 
Dan put Araminty Potter. It’s a foreseen thing. Like 
God might a thought of. Believe in God, Velvet?” 

“Yes, and no,” said Velvet. “Yes, and no,” and 
sighed. 

“Shouldn’t have asked,” said Mi cheerfully. “Private. 
Come along now and get a stamp out of your mother for 
me. I’m done this week to a penny.” 

Christmas came and went. The Piebald’s muscles grew 
tauter. One evening in the first days of January, Mr. 
Brown took Edwina and Mally and Meredith to the 
pictures. Velvet would have gone but she felt shivery 
after tea. When they had left the house Velvet and her 
mother and Mi sat alone. Mrs. Brown did a patience. 
Mi cut a piece of cork to fit a bottle, Velvet did nothing, 
the wind howled round them, the carpet rose against 
the door. The spaniels lay heaped in Miss Ada’s stall. 

“Bus’ll be near blown over,” said Mi. “They’ll catch 
it going in.” 

Mrs. Brown laid out another card. Jacob shivered and 
recrossed his delicate fore-feet. 

Mi looked at Mrs. Brown as he cut his cork and knew 
the moment had come to include her. When he looked 
at her he saw a pillar of fire. He put aside the great 
dun-coloured coating, the enormous thighs, the shoulders 
which bore a pack of muscle like a yoke across them. 
He saw instead those mysterious qualities that made him 
say of any uncouth, unwieldy, unmanageable horse, “He’s 
got heart.” By heart he meant a heart that Would stay. 

“There’s a horse” he said, feeling his way to break 
the silence, “over at Pendean would carry you.” 

“Never bin on a horse,” said Mrs. Brown. 

“Makes no odds,” said Mi indifferently — but he would 



164 “national velvet” 

not let the silence close again. 

“Should tell yer Ma f’l were you. Velvet,” he said 
in an odd voice. “Now’s your minute.” 

Velvet looked up. Mrs. Brown laid out her cards 
unmoved. 

Velvet watched her own feet. “Piebald’s fit” she 
mumbled, “to run in the National.” 

Mrs. Brown ruminated, laid down her cards. Said: 

“What about it?” 

“Thought of r unnin ’ it,” said Velvet. 

“You did?” 

“M’m . . .” 

“The Grand National with them jumps?” 

“M’m. . . . Thirty jumps.” 

“Stiff,” said Mrs. Brown. 

Nobody spoke. Mi cut his cork. His fingers stuck and 
slipped. Velvet would never disobey her mother. 

“What’ll it cost?” said Mrs. Brown. 

“A hundred pounds to enter. And money for a horse- 
box. An’ me night’s lodging. (I gotta see it).” 

“What do you win if you win?” 

“Oh,” said Velvet vaguely, “thousands and a cup. 
But it’s not that, it’s for the horse. Besides, if they find 
out they’ll disqualify me. It’s only for the horse.” 

“What makes you think it can win?” 

“It can.” 

“Can it. Mi?” 

“Shouldn’t wonder?” 

“Well,” said Mrs. Brown, and gathered up the cards 
into a neat pack. Her peasant’s eye, half shrewd, half 
visionary, inspected the idea, and the features of her big 
face not stirring she moved her head with elephantine 
majesty. Then she rose and going to the sideboard took 



“national velvet” 165 

out a key from a drawer. She left the room and was heard 
above walking in her own. 

Velvet closed her eyes. Her feet were cold. 

“My feet are cold, Mi.” 

“Keep still. Lie still.” 

Mrs. Brown came back with a box, her lips moving as 
though she were talking to herself. Unlocking the box 
on the table she counted out money, old-fashioned 
money, gold. Gold sovereigns. 

Mi leant forward. Velvet sat up. Mi knew what they 
were. 

“Your prize? What you won?” said Mi, quiet. 

“Kept it,” said Mrs. Brown. “Thought I might. 
Thought I would.” 

“Look at it,” said Mi. “Never seen such a thing since 
I was a lad.” 

Mrs. Brown’s thick fingers built castles with the 
coins. 

“There’s a hundred. Twenty fer expenses.” She 
looked straight at Velvet. “I gotta fancy. Velvet, that 
you pay your entry in this.” She tapped the castles. 

“Pay in the gold itself?” said Mi. 

“It’ll bring you luck,” said Mrs. Brown. 

“Weatherby’s’ll think it odd,” said Mi. 

“You got a thing you sign?” said Mrs. Brown. 

“Yes,” said Mi. And fumbled in his coat pocket. 

Mrs. Brown took the blue form and read it. 

“Not there,” said Mi, “that’s the Grand Military. 
Next page. Top a’ page seventeen. ‘Liverpool — con- 
tinued,’ it says.” 

Mrs. Brown read in silence. 

“Queer,” she said at last. “Queer thing. I had a 
feeling.” 



1 66 “ NATIONAL VELVET^ 

“What?” said Mi. 

“An* see there,” said Mrs. Brown, handing him the 
form and plunging her finger on it. “See what it says. 
e Sov. Ten sov. each. Fifty sov. extra/ There's the 
wording clear. They can't go back on it. You use them 
sovereigns. I had a fancy they'd come in.” 

Velvet hung softly against her mother, putting her 
arms round her shoulders. Mrs. Brown took her sud- 
denly on her lap. Mi was so affected he called Jacob into 
the yard. But before he went he hit his lips three times 
with his index finger at Velvet behind her mother's back. 
She stared at him vacantly and he shook his head and 
closed the door. 

“Who'll tell father?” whispered Velvet. 

“I’ll tell your father,” said Mrs. Brown rocking her. 

Of this discussion Velvet heard nothing. When the 
battle was over she was given no more than the result. 
But in the deep of the night forces were involved that 
stirred Araminty Potter to love and to fury, and finally 
to love again. In meeting a hard, but as it turned out a 
brittle, opposition from her husband, Araminty rose 
like a sea monster from its home. After her years of 
silence she grunted with astonishing anger, and William, 
powerless and exasperated, stung like a gnat upon a 
knotted hide. That something which was obstinate and 
visionary and childish bound Mi and Velvet and her 
mother together, and in the night Araminty, in doing 
battle for their dreams, fought too for her own in- 
articulate honour. 

The difference ran to its end, they were shaken pro- 
foundly, and slept in friendship at dawn. Mr. Brown 
rose next morning, spiritually bruised, feeling that he was 
going to be made ridiculous, but acquiescent. 



“national velvet” 167 

The first effect of this discussion was that The Piebald 
stood in Miss Ada’s stall and Miss Ada found herself 
once more among the tools (which she shared at night 
with the spaniels). Velvet took her gymkhana money 
out of the bank to buy oats, and what she could not buy 
her mother saved from the housekeeping. 

The horse was walked endlessly uphill. There was not 
a steep hill-surface for miles around that Velvet had not 
sought out and ascended. The faulty, pear-shaped 
quarters of The Piebald swelled with muscle. Clipped 
out, he shone blacker and whiter than ever, his long tail 
and mane washed in the vinegar suds from Edwina’s 
hair-rinsings, his pink albino hooves scrubbed with a 
nail brush and polished. He grew to look like a newly- 
painted rocking horse, freshly delivered. 

* * * * 

On the first Monday in January Mi took the whole 
entry money of a hundred pounds in gold sovereigns in 
a bag up to London. He went to Messrs. Weatherby in 
Cavendish Square, walked up the stone steps, pushed the 
doors, and stood at a wooden counter not unlike a bank. 
A tall man asked him ofF-handedly what he wanted. 

“Entry. Fer the Gran’ National,” said Mi, pulling out 
the completed form, dumping the heavy bag on the 
counter, and pushing it towards the man. 

“What’s that?” 

“Th’entry money,” said Mi. 

“Ten pounds. Have you brought it in silver?” said the 
man superciliously, touching the neck of the bag with his 
fingers. 

“Ten? I’ve brought a hundred. In gold.” 

The man drew the bag towards him and opened it. 



168 “national velvet” 

He peered inside with astonishment “What's this? 
Sovereigns?” 

“A hundred sovereigns,” said Mi. 

The man looked at Mi consideringly. He indicated a 
stool. “Will you wait?” he said. He was away a moment, 
then returned with a companion whose air was even more 
exalted and critical. 

“Do I understand,” said the second man, “that you 
have brought a hundred sovereigns in pre-war gold to 
pay for an entry for the Grand National . . . Race?” 
He brought out the word “race” as though it were the 
crime which Mi had committed. 

“Yes, sir,” said Mi cheerfully and simply and shifted 
his feet and leant on the counter. “It's quite simple, sir. 
I thought you’d like it best jus’ as it was. I didn’t know 
where best to change it into paper an’ as this is as good’s a 
bank (the man’s eyes lightened just a shade) I thought I’d 
bring it here.” 

“To what horse does this refer?” 

“It’s a piebald horse. Property of Miss V. Brown. 
She owns it. Her father’s a butcher down. . . . The 
address is here.” He smoothed out the form. 

“Who is the trainer?” 

“Privately trained, sir.” 

“Not by the owner?” 

“Well, yes, by the owner. Yes, sir, trained by her 
since she’s had it.” 

“How do you come to bring up this money?” 

Mi paused a moment and sucked his tooth. 

“It’s a fancy of Miss Brown’s mother, sir. She had 
the sovereigns tucked away for years. Kind of store, sir. 
She had a fancy it would bring the horse luck if she paid 
the entry money with the sovereigns.” 



“national velvet” 169 

“Fm afraid we can’t do deals in gold. This is worth 
more than a hundred pounds.” 

“You mean I get some change back?” 

“You would if we took it. But we can’t have any- 
thing to do with the price of gold at the present rate. 
That is not our business.” 

“I don’t think,” said Mi slowly, “that Mis. Brown 
wants any change. A hundred sovereigns is a hundred 
pounds to her. She’s old-fashioned. She’s set on paying 
the entry with this hundred pounds here in this bag, 
sir.” 

“There’s another thing,” said the man. “You don’t 
need to pay a hundred now. It’s ten sovereigns now, 
fifty sovereigns extra if left in after January 30th, with an 
additional forty sovereigns if left in after March 1 3th.” 

“Sovereigns,” murmured Mi. “It says 'sovereigns/ 
and these are sovereigns.” 

“Well that’s the . . /’ (the gentleman looked acid), 
“the wording dating from the original . . . er . . . 
inception of this form.” 

“Clear enough,” said Mi, “Sovereigns it says. I don’t 
want to make difficulties, sir, but I’ve brought you 
sovereigns, haven’t I?” 

“I think you had better wait,” said the gendeman, and 
he and his companion disappeared. Mi sat on the stool 
again and eyed his bag. He read the antique sporting 
notices. There was a ginger and green notice, stiff with 
discoloured varnish, about paying for the weights in the 
weighing room. He frowned at it. He had never heard 
of such a thing. Then he saw that it was dated a hundred 
years ago. 

After a long interval the gentleman returned, alone. 

“The sovereigns will be accepted,” he said curdy. 



170 “national velvet” 

“but there is no need to deposit more than ten as 
yet.” 

“I’d sooner leave the lot,” said Mi obstinately. 

“The reason for the division of the entry amounts/’ 
said the gentleman, disliking Mi more and more, “is in 
case the horse becomes by a later date unable to run.” 

“This horse’ll run,” said Mi. 

“You cannot foresee,” said the gentleman “acts of 
God.” 

“M’m I can,” said Mi, “m’m I can. You take the lot 
an’ stack it for me. Safer here. I might get it lifted off me 
on the way home. You got a fine big place here. You 
got room for ninety sovereigns stacked away. You can 
give me a paper for it. They need me at the butcher’s 
down here. ’Tisn’t easy to keep making journeys. You’ll 
need the lot before we’re done.” 

Again the gentleman disappeared and a very exalted 
head was put round the lintel of an inner cubicle and two 
very shrewd and dwelling eyes inspected Mi. 

Finally a receipt was handed to him, the bag and form 
taken from him and Mi was ready to depart. 

“Who’s your rider?” said the gentleman, almost 
sociably at last. 

“Foreign chap,” said Mi instantly. “Cornin’ over 
later.” 

“He’ll have to get his Clearance, you know,” said 
the gentleman, “from his own accredited Jockey-Club.” 

“Yes, sir,” said Mi quickly. “Yes, thank you, sir.” 

“What’s his name? Do we know him?” 

“Tasky. James Tasky.” 

“English?” 

“Mother’s English. Chap’s half Russian.” 

“From which country then does he get his Clearance? 



NATIONAL VELVET 






171 


There is racing of course still in Russia.” 

“Mr. Brown's working it all out,” said Mi. “I'm just 
the hand down there. I know what I hear them say, 
that's about all.” 

“Well, good-day then. Just a minute. You'll notice 
on that receipt ‘Received one hundred sovereigns in 
gold sovereigns, value to be decided by Coutts's Bank 
when the final payment is due.' That means you get an 
amount returned. You'll explain that to the Owner, 
please.” 

“Right, sir. Good-day, sir.” 

Mi was out in the airy light of Cavendish Square and 
he ran his hand across his brow. 

“Mother nearly bitched it with 'er whimsies,” he said 


* * * * 


It was March. The days of March creeping gustily on 
like something that man couldn't hinder and God 
wouldn't hurry. 

“What about me jacket?” said Velvet in her whisper, 
somewhat hoarse, again and again. 

“Leave yer jacket !” said Mi testily. “I keep telling you. 
Leave me thinking of it.” 

“I can't sew, remember,” said Velvet warningly. 

“Think I don’t know that! My sister's sewing it.” 

“Your SISTER! You gotta sister!” Velvet sat bolt 
upright. 

“I gotta sister. I got two.” 

“You never told us I” 

“I'm no family man,” said Mi shortly. 

“Your old Dan . . . your old father's dead?” 

“He's dead!” 

“You gotta mother?” 



NATIONAL VELVET 


39 


172 


it 


“Dead too. But where I sprung from an’ what I left 
behind’s my business.” 

“But your sister’s my business. She’s sewing my 
coat.” 

“And well she can do that for me,” said Mi, reflecting. 
“I never asked her for a penny. I got her her job. Bin 
there years.” 

“Where?” 

“Sews for a tailor at Newmarket. Does the tailored 
shirts. I sent her that top of yours yer ma said was past 
darning.” 

“The top of that cotton dress what mother used the 
bottom for knickers?” 

“That’s the one.” 

“Well, it was too small, anyway. I hope she makes it 
bigger. What about the stuff?” 

“Black an’ pink I told her. She’s in the way of getting 
the stuff up there. She’ll get the cap made, too.” 

“And the breeches and the boots?” 

“You leave it to me up at Aintree. That’ll sort itself 
up at Aintree. Overnight. The valets go round with 
spares in their cases.” 

“Valets?” 

“Fellows that look after the jockeys. Press up their 
clothes an’ do their boots. There’s a gang of them go 
round the race meetings.” 

“Now,” said Velvet at last, as low as low, “there’s 
another thing.” 

“M’m?” 

“Mother,” said Velvet. And the spinning air seemed 
to stop round them in anxiety. 

“It’s a thing I’m thinking of too,” said Mi. “Worries 
me.” 



“national velvet” 1 7 $ 

“Yes,” said Velvet. “D’you know, ISC?” 

“What?” 

“I couldn’ do it PI dicin’ tell her.” 

The telling was done at the shop at night. Mi arranged 
it when Mrs. Brown was totting up. She spared the 
electric and totted by candlelight. 

“You gotta pretend Fm not your child,” said Velvet, 
long after bedtime. She dragged up her words as though 
the roots were deep. 

“You was nineteen when you swum the Channel,” 
said Velvet. “Fm fourteen but my chance’s come 
early. You mustn’t think I’m your child. I’m a girl with 
a Chance.” 

Her mother’s throat clicked. She blazed into fire 
without moving an eyelash. 

“Mi’s in the street, waitin’,” said Velvet. “It’s him 
an’ me.” (She paused at the gasp her mother gave.) 

“We’re out on it together,” went on Velvet, not 
knowing the terror that cooled her mother’s fire. “We 
think ... I think . . (coming up closer and speaking 
very low) “I kin ride the horse.” 

“Almighty God,” said Mrs. Brown, mild and reverent. 
She was thanking Him that her child was her shining 
Velvet. Not all messed up with love. Not all messed 
up with love an’ such. That JVC was to Velvet what 
Dan had been to her, that stuff grander and tougher 
than a lover. Now what was this suggestion that was like 
a wild dream? 

“In the race. Velvet?” 

Velvet described the machinery, Mi’s plans. Mi’s 
devices. 

“If I’m found out then they’ll send me home. Father’ll 
be angry. Just as likely I won’t be found out. Well 



174 “national velvet” 

then we’ll do our best. The horse is great. He’s like a 
Bible horse.” 

The interview was over, except the silence and the 
thinking. 

“I don’ want to speak to Mi about it,” said Mrs. 
Brown at last. “Tell him not to speak to me about it. 
Not a word. It’s a weight on me. It’s a terrible ... I 
can’t be but your mother, Velvet. ... To think Mi 
shoulda lent himself to this.” 

Then at the very end. . . . “I’m all ashake. Let there 
be no whisperin’ an’ talkin’. I must put it from me an’ 
pray to God.” 

Velvet left her. The candle guttered but the totting 
did not continue. Later the heavy woman walked 
home. 



« 



B 


Chapter XI 

March ran two-thirds of its days. 

Mr. Larke, the chemist called in to fetch his meat book. ' 
‘Tm hair-washing / 5 called Mrs. Brown from the scullery. 
Mr. Larke stood in the scullery door critically. 

“Two drops a’ camomile is what you ought to add,” he 
said. 

“Bleach ’em?” 

“Bleach ’em.” 

“Bleached enough already.” 

“When I say ‘Bleach’ I should say ‘Bring out the 
colour.’ ” 

“Vinegar’s what I use,” said Mrs. Brown. 

“So I can smell,” said Mr. Larke. 

“I got your last week’s book made up,” said Mrs. 
Brown, rinsing Edwina, “it’s on the sideboard by the 
apples. Now Velvet. Edwina, you go and rub your head 
an’ Mally’ll give you a hand.” 

Edwina came staggering back into the living-room, 
her head and face blindly wrapped in the bath towel Mrs. 
Brown had popped over her. “My back aches,” she 
grumbled. “I wish I could wash my own.” 

“Velvet !” called Mrs. Brown. 

“I’m coming . . .” 

When Velvet reached the scullery Mrs. Brown looked 
at her. “I won’t risk it,” she said. “Might make you 
squeamish, bending. I’ll brush it through with a wet 
brush an’ you can sit by the fire an’ comb it.” 

“I’m taking the book then,” called Mr. Larke loudly. 

175 



NATIONAL VELVET 


55 


i 7 6 


“It’s a great day for you all. Anxious. I’m not a racing 
man myself but we’ve all got our eyes on you. Velvet. 
There’s a bit of money on you in the village.” 

“Thank you,” said Velvet, through the brushing. 

“Say it louder,” said Mrs. Brown. 

“Thank YOU,” shouted Velvet. 

“Right,” said Mr. Larke. “Where you stopping?” 

“Hotel,” shouted Mrs. Brown. “She’s doing it slip- 
slap. (Why don’t he go? Makes you testy all this popping 
in an’ good-wishing) . . .” 

(“There he goes,” said Velvet. “I can feel the draught 
on my legs.”) 

“I’m dry!” shouted Edwina. “Can I go?” 

“You can’t be dry. Come here an’ let me feel.” 

Edwina came in. 

“Damp all roun’ your glands,” said Mrs. Brown, 
feeling. “You don’t go down the street like that.” 

“Teddy’s just . . .” 

“Teddy kin wait.” 

“He can’t.” 

“Anybody kin wait, Edwina,” said Mrs. Brown brush- 
ing hard, “for a pretty girl.” 

Edwina suddenly smiled all over her light-built face. 
She went back to the living room. 

“Isn’t she getting grown-up,” said Velvet. 

“You’re all on the edge of it.” 

“Not me.” 

“There you are!” said Mrs. Brown, laying down the 
brush. “You fluff up with a bit of water.” 

“It’ll all be down again flat in an hour.” 

“Greasy scalp,” said Mrs. Brown. “Get Meredith 
down for me. She’s with the birds.” 



NATIONAL VELVET 


a 


» 


177 


It was the last evening before the start at dawn. Velvet 
and Mi were travelling to Aintree in the horse-bos. The 
last evening meal. Donald was allowed to sit up. Taps 
came on the door as they ate and friendly voices called in. 
The whole village had of course long known that the 
piebald horse, won for a shilling, was going to be run in 
the Grand National. Velvet’s Grand National. “Gran* 
National Velvet,” Mr. Croom called out to her in the 
street. “Good morning. Gran’ National Velvet!” and 
two boys outside the sweet-shop had clapped their 
hands. “Got any tips for the National?” called the 
postman. 

“The Piebald I” said Velvet with her shy look. 

“Yes they’re going up to Liverpool to-morrow,” said 
Mrs. Brown at the door twenty times. “Mi an’ Velvet 
are going in the horse-box.” She filled the doorway with 
her body and behind her shadow Velvet sat. It was a soft 
March night between a pair of howling gales, a black, 
cold trough of peace, pierced with stars. Stars that above 
her mother’s head as she stood in the open street door- 
way seemed like Christmas trees, slender, growing into 
the sky. The Albert lamp on Edwina’s hair, her father’s 
folded neck, her mother’s majesty and silence, Donald’s 
film face and dear, disgusting habits, the sideboard, 
heavy, loaded, bottles of ink, dish covers, salmon tins, 
apples, vinegar bottles, Merry’s bird-absorbed face, 
Mally’s loyal and sharp eyes. Mi’s grin, Mi’s slouch. 
Mi’s way of cowing through the door, Mi’s shadow, the 
lying Jacob, the bitch-seeking, pleasure-loving, self- 
indulgent Jacob, agreeable dog, sensitive, agreeable 
dog . . . these things (not in words), but in the burning 
warmth of the present, swelled her leave-taking heart. 
She had a wordless premonition that this was an egg into 



178 "national velvet 5 ’ 

which it was impossible to re-enter. When the shell had 
burst, it was burst for ever. She felt this only as a dog 
howls for packing, mournful and simple and going, 
going, gone. 

Going, going, gone, full of stars and cacti, and 
yellow canaries screaming in the morning. 

"What d’you want. Velvet ? 55 

"I’m getting my shell box . 55 

In silence they watched her fetch her box and put it 
beside her plate. 

Edwina laughed suddenly. 

"Coo lummy. Velvet! Paper horses just before the 
Grand National ! 55 

"Beastly pair o 5 words , 55 muttered father. "Get ’em 
from Teddy . . 

"H’m . . . Teddy uses better words ’an that I” 

(Warm bickering of family life. Fathers and 
daughters. . . .) 

"Can I see wot’s inside that box?” said Donald. 

Velvet’s face lightened. Donald should look at them 
to-night. He had never set his fingers on them before. 

"Have you finished, Donald? Come an 5 sit on my lap.” 

"I kin climb up. Don 5 you help me.” He walked up 
the bars of her chair like a ladder and bumped himself 
down on to her lap from the arm. 

She opened the lid and a little shell fell off. 

"You’ve dropped a shell !” (burstingly.) 

"I must stick it back.” 

"Let me look I” 

"Ssh, wait . . .” Velvet put her thin finger inside and 
hooked up a race-horse. 

"Hullo! This is Grakle!” she said. "Who’s been 
changing them round? Who’s touched my box?” 



NATIONAL VELVET 


a 


» 


179 


“I did,” said Merry in a small voice, “I did. Velvet. 
Fm sorry.” 

Velvet looked astonished. “I don't mind. Merry,” she 
said. “I didn't think you ever cared about them.” 

“It was yesterday afternoon,” said Merry. “The 
canaries were so alive. You can't do anything with them. 
I took your horses out to exercise. I just took out the 
National winners and jumped a bush behind Peg's Farm.” 

“Show me, show me,” hammered Donald, leaning 
over the box and poking his fingers inside. 

Velvet put her hand over his fingers. (“In a second, 
Donald . . .) but I'm glad. Merry. I’d love you to take 
them out. Which ones did you take?” 

“Tipperary Tim an' Sergeant Murphy and Manifesto. 
Doesn't Manifesto look lovely with his ears forward and 
the shine on his shoulder? He's a right-facing one. 
Where'd you cut him from?” 

But Velvet bent her head suddenly over Donald. She 
had cut him from a library book down at the school- 
house. 

“Now pull them out !” said Donald. 

“All the National Winners are on top,” said Velvet, 
groping. “The ponies are underneath. There's a tiny 
. . . there’s a Shetland. . . . Here it is. Look, Donald! 
Isn't he fat and like a kitten !” 

“I like real horses,” said Donald, unmoved, 

“Good, good boy,” said Mally. 

“Oh there's my darling Chestnut Fourteen-Two!” said 
Velvet, half mourning over them. “Oh why haven't I 
looked at them for so long?” 

“Can't do everything, Velvet,” said her father, 
twisting his chair round so that he could read better 
under the lamp. “You got your things packed up?” 



i8o “national velvet” 

“They’re ready,” said mother, clearing away the last 
dish. 

“I’m going to bed,” said Mi. “We’re off at five. 
Won’t do her no good to sit up.” 

“She won’t,” said Mrs. Brown. “She’ll go in half an 
hour.” 

“On top o’ my food 1 ” said Velvet indignantly 

“Food or no,” said mother. 

“Plate all right?” said father. 

“Sitting fine,” said Velvet, who knew this was a 
gesture of love. 

“Let me see that Manifesto,” said Mi, standing in the 
doorway. Velvet picked the horse out. 

“Won twice,” said Mi. “97 ... an’ 99.” 

“How’d you know all that, Mi?” said Mr. Brown 
from his lamp and paper. 

“Dunno,” said Mi. “There it is. What a shoulder . . . 
eh? What a horse . . . eh? Looks too clever to win.” 

“Shouldn’t they be clever?” said Edwina. 

“Jumpin’ thirty jumps when they can stan’ still . . . 1 ” 
said Mi. “He did that Course eight times. Greatest 
National horse ever was. Why he won it twice.” 

“I can’t understand you. Mi,” said Edwina. “You just 
said he wasn’t clever.” 

“’Tisn’t everything to be clever,” said Mi, and 
disappeared to bed. 

“How come Mi never to ride?” said Mr. Brown into 
his newspaper. 

“Tell me some more,” said Donald. 

“I wish we could all go to Liverpool,” said Mally. 

“Cost too much,” said Mr. Brown. “Yer mother 
plumpin’ her prize-money on Velvet that’s one thing ! 
We can’t spend no more — just in the air.” 



“national velvet” 181 

“Bed for you, Donald,” said mo ther . 

“Tell me one more horse ’fore I go.” 

“There was once a horse called Moifaa,” gabbled 
Velvet, looking at her mother. 

Mrs. Brown nodded. “Just to-night. Just a quick 
one.” 

Donald swung round his eyes and hooked them upon 
Velvet’s lips. 

“Moifaa was sent from New Zealand in a ship.” 

“Where’s that?” 

Velvet pointed to the floor with her finger. “Same as 
Australia. Down there. Th’other side.” 

“M’m . . . m’m . . .” said Donald greedily, waiting. 

“The horse was sent right round the world and the 
ship went down near Ireland.” 

“How d’you know?” said Mally, listening like Donald. 

“Mi told me. An’ the ship went down an’ the horse 
swam to an island off the coast, and the island had 
salt grass an’ there was nothing to eat an’ the horse 
walked up an’ down the seashore looking out to sea an’ 
neighing.” 

“An’ what?” 

“Screaming for help.” 

“The horse did?” 

“Yes. An’ fishermen were fishing an’ they rowed 
near an’ saw him. A horse standing neighing on an 
island where there’d never bin a horse. Never bin a 
cow. Never bin anything. It gave ’em the creeps an’ 
they went home.” 

“Did they leave him there?” 

“Left him there all night with all that grass an’ all of it 
salt an’ all that water an’ all of it salt, and him used to a 
good stable and lots of men. He musta bin scared stiff. 



1 82 “national velvet” 

I le was a great big ugly horse, seventeen hands high, an’ 
1 bet he was a brave horse.” 

“Did he die?” said Donald, his eyes blazing. 

“No he didn’t die.” 

“Yes he did. I KNOW he did.” 

“You can’t know because he didn’t. He was fetched 
by a steamer or something . . .” 

“He DIED,” said Donald with a blazing, inner 
look. 

“He didn’t, he didn’t. He won the National.” 

“He died on that island,” said Donald like a fanatic. 
“I was there.” 

“You weren’t. What a story. You weren’t bom.” 

“I was born, I was born . . .” 

“You were a star,” said Edwina annoyingly. 

“I wasn’ a star I was born an’ I was there an’ that 
horse died. He died on that salty place an’ I saw ’im 
die and he lay down an’ his eyes . . .” 

“Hysterics,” said Mrs. Brown calmly and whisked- 
him up. “He’s never any good when he’s missed his 
hour.” Donald went to bed weeping and was asleep in 
ten minutes. 

“You didn’t wash him, mother!” said Mally, 
scandalized, on her mother’s return. 

“Wants sleep not washin’,” said Mrs. Brown. “Now 
Velvet!” 

“Just after Donald? Not NOW?” 

“This minute.” 

“I must put my shell box away.” 

“Put it away.” 

“I’ll put the racehorses in at the bottom.” 

In went Manifesto, Tipperary Tim, Sergeant Murphy, 
Ally Sloper, Why Not, and Shannon Lass, — five rignt- 



“national velvet” 183 

handers ajnd one left. Then the Shetland, then the four 
ponies, an|d on the very top of all the prize among her 
findings ^mother theft from the Free Library book) 
the litde grey stallion, the Lamb (by Zouave — dam by 
Arthur), i 

“There (they are,” she said with a sigh, and shut the 
lid. \ 

“Cheer up. Velvet,” said Mr. Brown. 

“Feels nHixed up,” said Mrs. Brown. “Get on. Velvet, 

don’t hang, about.” 

Slowly Velvet climbed the wooden stairs to bed. 
Her head seemed hardly to have touched the pillow 
when mother, dressed in her pink dressing gown, shook 
her in her bed. Dizzy she rose, and shivering dressed, 
thpn swallowed die hot cocoa, and holding a piece 
of cold sausage in Tier fingers climbed into the lobby of 
the horse box which had arrived in the dark before dawn. 
Her suitcase was stuffed in after her. Mi arrived, carrying 
another through the dark yard, a spaniel yelped from Miss 
Ada’s tool shed, and the box was off. The Piebald 
already housed by Mi twenty minutes earlier. 

“We’re off, we’re off!” whispered Velvet. 

“Tscht!” said Mi. “You stow it till it gets fight,” 
and he settled 1 himself on the straw to finish his night’s 
sleep. . 

Endles s journey in the horse-box till the south gave 
■^ay to the norih, bit by bit, and the day broken by fresh 
packets of sand'wiches. 

“Don’t we stop anywhere. Mi?” said Velvet as the 
hours crawled on. 

But Mi was full of thought. There was a frown on 
his forehead and an edge to his -tongue, and now and 
1 again he glanced at his large suitcase. 

N 



184 “national velvet” 

The horse-box driver, hired from Worthing, was a 
stranger, a glum fellow who seemed to have ijio interest 
in horses, the Grand National, the countryside, of 
the passengers he carried. His eye was glazed on the 
road ahead of him, and his mind was mesmerised by 
hours on the clock and miles to be covered, and the 
relation of these to each other. ; 

Five miles outside Aintree they paused jmd broke 
the journey for a pot of tea. Mi glanced at jv'elvet and 
rose. 

“You off?” said the driver, half asleep over his cup. 

“Girl got an aunt here,” said Mi gruffly. “Takin' 
her to her aunt.” 

The driver slipped his legs out and lay; back deeply 
in his chair. His eyes closed. ’ i 

It took Mi twenty minutes to get Velvet's hair chopped 
perfunctorily in the lobby of the horse-bqx. It was the 
back by the nape of the neck that took 'the time. He 
bent down and crushed the sweepings in among the 
straw with the horse. 

“Whiter’n straw,” he muttered. “Looks! like stubble.” 

“Won't he come any minute?” said Velvet anxiously. 

“Any minute,” said Mi. “Can't be j helped. Got 
nowhere else to do it. Pull up them trousers and give me 
yer skirt.” The aged little skirt, the widt/h of a school- 
boy’s pants, was stuffed into the suitcase. 

“Where'd you get ’em all?” 

“Don't talk. Hurry. Slip your arm 'in the braces, 
they're all ready.” 

A hard white collar, slightly soiled, and a spotted 
tie, hung on a nail. 

“Can you manage ’em?” 

“Yes, I expect. Is there a stud?” 



“national velvet” 185 

Mi took his own from his neck, and tied his hand- 
kerchief in its place. 

“You ma n age 'em an’ I’ll go an’ talk to him if he 
wakes.” 

“What’ll I do when I’m finished?” 

“Slope round the back an’ wait about. When we’ve 
gone get some tea or ginger an’ sit in there. Here’s a 
shilling. I’ll be back in a couple of hours, near. Then 
we’U take the tram into Liverpool an’ go an’ have a look 
at the Adelphi. Look sharp now.” 

The little man who emerged from the back of the 
horse-van was very much thrown together. As he 
walked he seemed to settle down; he turned up his coat 
collar to hide the badly-tied tie, and jammed his greasy 
hat more confidently over his brow. 

Mi and the driver emerged, the engine started, the 
horse-box moved away. 

The skies, which had held off, now lowered and 
broke. Rain fell and the little man stirred his cold 
tea endlessly, fencing the occasional questions from the 
landlady. 

The landlady had no sort of doubt. 

“It’s a girl,” she said to her husband in the kitchen. 

“No business of ours,” said her husband. 

“None,” she agreed. 

The inn was empty, the rain thudded, the white-faced 
clock tocked on, no customer came in. When Mi 
pushed the door open and dropped down upon the mat 
Velvet woke with a jerk from a cold half-sleep. 

They started up the road. Mi carrying the heavy 
suitcase. Velvet the small papier-mache one she had 
brought. The trams began half a mile away, but by 
the time they reached them rain was entering their 



186 “national velvet” 

collars and wallowing in their shoes. 

Climbing on to the hard seats they jolted off, huddling 
dose together for warmth, the little sturdy man with the 
red hair and the lad with the greasy Homburg hat. 
“What’s the Adelphi?” said the lad, low. 

“Toff’s place,” said the other. “Maybe it’s too toff. 
I’ve forgot. There’s the Stork too. We’ll walk round 
and see.” 

“Be wet. Walking round.” 

“Couldn’t be wetter.” 

“Funny, that chap driving off with my hair.” 

“Turn your head round this way and let’s look.” 
Mi inspected the nape of the neck under the Homburg 
hat. “I’ll have to trim it better,” he said, “ s’ choppy.” 




Chapter XII 


Drenched with rain they stood at the portals of the 
Adelphi. Mi laid his hand on the little man’s shoulder. 
“Mind the porter!” he said in a* whisper. “Stand back 
here behind the concrete. I gone an 5 forgot. This place 
is too swell.” 

“Feet are sopped,” said the little man. 

“This rain’s like ink. It’s a bad start off. Stop a 
minute . . 

“Ah,” said the little man and looked hungrily through 
the revolving doors. “Coo lummy,” he whispered, 
“aren’t they gay in there ! It’s all looking-glass I” 

They were on the arrival terrace of the Adelphi above 
the dripping Square, rustling with the noise of falling 
rain and overflowing pipes. The trams nosed by, the 
wet lamps flashed, “Ovaltine” went in and out, the grey 
buildings were polished with water. 

“See the toffs go in,” said Mi as the taxis drew up. 
“Gawd, ther’s Lord Derby !” 

“Where?” 

“Crossing the hall, see? Why . . . he’s got Tommy 
Weston with him.” 

“The big man?” 

“No, his Lordship’s the big one. Let’s go to the 
Stork.” 

They trudged away in the rain. Mi carrying the 
bigger suitcase, which seemed to be melting at one 
corner. 

“S’chap wantsa room,” said Mi. “He’s a foreign. 

187 



i88 


NATIONAL VELVET 


u 




Name Tasky. I’m not looking for one for myself. I'm 
lodged." 

The Stork took them in. 

Velvet stared at him. 

They went up the stairs to a small room at the back. 

“How’d you mean you’re lodged?" 

“Tsch! Talk quiet." 

They reached number seven, went in, and Mi shut the 
door. It was a bare room with a small bed and a sixty- 
volt electric light. 

“I don’ need a room. See? I got to do some nosing 
round. There’s chaps I’ll see an’ chaps I’ll listen to. I 
might go round to th’Adelphi." 

“The Adelphi !" 

“Why not? Place is full o’ chaps like me. Not on 
the top level. Round the pantries. You can see things 
if you cross the hall purposeful from time to time. 
Nobody asks. There’s the telephone lobbies. Head 
lads doing a bit of telephoning. Michael Beary’ll be 
chatting about I daresay." 

“Who’s he?" 

“Dear God, Velvet!" 

“Eh ... I’ll never get my feet warm," said Velvet, 
sighing. 

“Get undressed an’ I’ll poke round an’ get you a hot 
bottle." 

“But. . . . Me being a lad . . ." 

“Yepp. Beat your feet with a brush, then. I’ll do 
it." 

“Rub ’em." 

“Beat’s better. Where’s the brush?" 

Velvet knelt down and undid her suitcase. “I didn’t 
bring a brush," she said desisting suddenly. “I thought 



“national velvet” 189 

my hair, now it’s off . . .” 

“I done it not so bad/’ said Mi with pride. “It’s 
white skin where the hair used to hang. I’ll snip it cleaner 
in the morning.” 

“Can’t we get something? It’s the one place that shows, 
when I’ve got that cap on. How much money you got 
left?” 

“Precious little,” said Mi. “Enough fer your room an’ 
gettin’ out there. You get into bed an’ I’ll come back in 
ten minutes.” 

Velvet lay shivering in bed, too tired to turn out the 
devouring light which blanched her under its beams. 
The bones of her forehead were sore when she pressed 
her head in her hands. 

Mi returned. He carried a tiny glass full of a brilliant 
green liquid, placed it carefully on the mantelpiece 
and took out from under his coat a gin bottle which he 
had filled with boiling water. 

“There goes one an’ six,” he said. “We gotta be 
careful.” 

Velvet opened her eyes. 

“Got this in the yard at the back,” said Mi, shoving 
the gin bottle under the bed-clothes and near her feet. 
“Filled it myself. That’s peppermint drink on the mantel- 
piece. Alcohol. It’ll keep till the morning. It’s mint an’ 
spirits. Now you go to sleep an’ I’ll look in some time in 
the night.” 

He went out and shut the door, leaving the light 
still on. Velvet slept fitfully beneath its glare, unaware of 
what was amiss. At three Mi looked in but she was still 
and he closed the door. At five he came in and found her 
awake. It was yet deep night, the light on and the 
window pane black. 



10,0 “national velvet” 

“Streaming outside,” he said. He looked white 
and tired. Then, turning to the mantelpiece, “You’ve 
drank that stuff /” 

“I thought I was going to die” said Velvet, sitting 
up and looking bright, “n’hour ago. The room was 
going round. I got up an’ drank it off. S’marvellous. 
Have you got another one an’ six case I feel worse?” 

“I might have,” said Mi, sitting down on the one 
hard chair. Don’t you go taking to drink.” 

“Drink? Is it drink?” 

“Told you it was spirits.” 

“Well I forgot. I was bad. It’s saved me. Just 
look at that black rain on the glass. They won’t put the 
race off, will they?” 

“The going’ll be heavy as lead. Now see. Velvet. 
You ready to listen to a lot o’ things?” 

“Yes, Mi.” 

“Well an’ ready? Cos I got a lot to say.” 

“Yes, Mi.” 

“Well, first here’s a map of the Course. I got it from a 
chap. You oughtoa walked round with me this morning 
but it’s so wet an’ if I get you tired you’ll be no use. 
Besides it’s best you do without seeing what the other 
side o’ Becher’s is like.” 

“When did you see it?” 

“When did I see it? Didn’t I tell you I know it all up 
here like my thumb? One time I used to shift coal on 
trucks on the line alongside Becher’s. You can’t see 
much on the National, there’s such a crowd, but the 
Liverpool Autumn Meeting in November you got all to 
yourself. You can stand up there an’ see the ambulance 
come an’ see the men standing there with ropes ready an’ 
all.” 



“ NATIONAL VELVET” I91 

“Ooh, Mi, ready for what?” 

“Ready to lug the horses out of the drop.” 

“Ooh— Mi” 

“Huh! It’s not going to happen to you! You got 
The Piebald jumping under you. Don’t you forget 
that. All I mean is don’t be surprised when you ride 
at Becher’s, an’ don’t think you’ve jumped over the 
lip of a quarry, ’cos it isn’t a quarry and you’ll stop 
dropping in the end an’ if you’re not surprised the horse 
won’t be.” 

“Yes, Mi.” 

“Now. We’ll take the jumps all round. Same as if 
you were walking round which you should be.” 

Mi pulled his chair up to Velvet’s bed and flattened the 
thin paper map on her sheet. 

“Plan of the Liverpool Racecourse,” it said. “Distance 
of Grand National Course about four miles 856 yards.” 

“Now then,” said Mi. “Just listen. You start . . . 
here at the corner. It says "Paddock’ just behind.” 

“Yes, Mi.” 

(“An’ don’t keep saying "Yes, Mi.’) Don’t fuss too 
much about your start. It’s no odds getting off in a tear- 
away. What you got to do is to jump round and jump 
clean and go as fast as you can when you know what 
you’re doing. But wait till you know what you’re doing 
before you hurry. Mind you, he doesn’t know nothing 
about racing. He won’t be hard to hold. I know you got 
him under your thumb. Now. . . . First you cross a 
road. On tan. The tan’ll fly up in your eye. Keep ’em 
shut across the road. Then the first fence. Plain fence. 
Then the next. Plain fence. You done just as big in the 
mushroom valley. There’s nothing in them, but don’t 
you despise ’em. Many’s come down in the first two. 



192 “national velvet” 

There won’t be much tailing there. You’ll be all clustered 
up. 

“Then comes a rail, ditch, and fence. I’m not saying 
it isn’t an awful whopper for them as stands at the sides 
an’ looks. It looks awful from the truckway. But 
it won’t look so bad to you, you won’t know it. You’ll 
see a yellow-looking log lying low on the ground and 
you must take-off in time before it. It’s on the lip of the 
ditch. It’s not the landing so much there as the take-off. 

“Then there’s two more thorn fences. Then there’s 
Becher’s. 

“Now there’s no need to jail at Becher’s. No need at all. 
I watched it an’ I know. If I was sitting below you on the 
far side I wouldn’t want to see the eyes popping out of 
your head as you came down. Just sit back. If you lie 
back you’ll only be upright to the ground. Don’t jerk 
his head whatever you do. It’s a long way down but he’ll 
land steady. Just keep as still if you were a dummy, and 
put confidence into him.” 

“What’s the drop. Mi?” 

“I don’ know but it looks twenty. On account of the 
ditch at the bottom. But you clear the ditch. That’s 
nothing to do with you. You land on uphill grass an’ 
gallop on. Then there’s a ... (I can’t read that one! 
It’s printed on the black. It’s a plain jump anyway.) 
Then there’s the Canal Turn . . .” 

“Mi, I can’t remember it all !” 

“Put yer mind to it. The Canal Turn’s a teaser. 
You got to put yer mind to it. There’s a chance of 
horses running out there. They got a screen up to stop 
it but they seem to want to run out to the left. There’s 
the canal shinin’ right ahead. Perhaps that’s it. They 
don’t want to swim. 



“national velvet” 193 

“You want to make for the middle of the jump at the 
Canal Turn. Don’t you go skidding in to the left and 
saving ground. If you get on the inside as they turn an’ 
you’ve just landed God help you. Even if you can’t 
remember anything else remember to keep to the middle 
at the Canal Turn. You can’t go wrong. There’s the 
Canal shinin’ just in front of you. A pack of seagulls’ll 
rise most likely as you come up. They always do.” 

“Mi, I swear I can’t remember any more.” 

“But I gotta tell you about Valentine’s.” 

“I’m getting sickagain. You’re making me sick again.” 

“You’re a nice one. Wish I’d got you a double !” 

“That m int stuff?” 

“M’m. Gotta get all this into you. Even if I drop 
the rest of the jumps I gotta tell you it’s twice round the 
Course.” 

“Well I know that ! Is it too early to get the mint?” 

“It’s not six yet. It’s dark. Gosh a’mighty look at 
the rain !” Mi walked to the window. 

“Well, go on. But not about the jumps. Yes . . . 
tell me about the water jump.” 

“The water jump’s pink,” said Mi despondently. 

“How d’you mean?” 

“You got to say to yourself, ‘It’s pink. I gotta jump all 
of the pink.’ ” 

“Why’s it pink?” 

“Everything else is grey,” said Mi, dully. “The 
water’s puddled on pink clay. It looks meaty. It’s 
opposite the Grand Stand. The people’ll be yelling.” 

“Go on. Mi! Tell me some more!” Velvet sat up 
straighter seeing that her supporter was flagging. 

“M’murdering you. Velvet? V’l brought you up 
here to kill you . . . ?” 



194 “national velvet ” 

“No fear. No you aren’t! You’re tired. You’re 
S °ppy ! It’s no more’n a day’s hunting.” 

“Oh yes it is ! An’ you never done a day’s hunting.” 

“Come on, Mi. Piebald an’ me’ll go round like 
crickets. Tell me some more.” 

“I wish yer mother was here, Velvet.” 

“She is here! She’s inside me. Ain’t you always 
telling me that if she hadn’t swum the Channel I shouldn’t 
be up here?” 

“Tha’s true. But you get so sick an’ all. It’s an awful 
drawback, this vomiting.” 

“I’ll grow out of it.” 

“I’ll get you some more mint when it’s daylight.” 

“Where’s the money coming from?” 

“I got that much. On’y we gotta be careful. It don’ 
matter f ’we land at the end of the race without a bean but 
we gotta have enough to get there.” 

“How we going out?” 

Mi looked at her. “Taxi,” he said. “That’s what I bin 
saving up for. Chap’ll do it fer three and six.” 

“Gosh !” said Velvet. 

“I gotta get you out there fresh . . . see?” 

“Well then come on then, tell me some more.” 

“Look here now, I talked to a lotta chaps. This is how 
it is. Them jumps in the valley you gather yer horse up, 
don’t you?” 

“Yes.” 

“Well, you can’t go on doing that twice roun’ the 
National. Or if you do you gotta do it like silk. Cos when 
a horse gets as done as that he can’t stand being gathered 
up not like you would at the beginning. You gotta 
haul him in. You remember that! You gotta haul him in 
s’thoughhe . . . s’though he was a big fish that was on’y 



“national velvet” 195 

half hooked. When he gets on to the Race-course . . .” 

“At the beginning?” 

“No . . . that’s what they call the end. The Race- 
course. It means getting on to the straight after the 
jumps. It’s when you get off the National Course an’ 
come galloping up on the Gold Cup Course just before 
the Grand Stand. They call it "coming on to the Race- 
course.’ ” 

""Yes, Mi. Yes . . . well I mean?” 

""What was I saying? Oh yes. When the horses 
get on to the second round, or a bit after (some don’t 
do it till the second time Becher’s), they begin to get 
their necks stickin’ out so far you wouldn’t know ’em. 
They can’t jump like that. On the other hand if you 
pull ’em in with a jerk you throw ’em down. You 
want to haul. You want to take a pull an’ a pull, s’gentle 
s’though you got ’em on a piece of silk an’ it’ll break. 
You gotta judge yourself how much you’ll hustle after 
you’ve landed an’ how soon before the next you’ll take a 
little swig at the hauling.” 

Quite suddenly Mi dozed. Velvet sat and looked at 
him and tried to remember the order of the jumps. 
The map had fallen out of his hand on to the floor but 
she did not like to disturb him to reach for it. The rain 
slashed and dribbled on the whitening pane. The 
electric light flickered once or twice as though the 
power stations were swimming up into daylight and 
meeting the morning shift. Mi woke again with a start. 

“Th’Adelphi’s full o’ chaps,” he said at once, brightly. 
""They say "Yellow Messenger’s’ your trouble. He’s a 
bay. Seventeen hands. Yellow jacket, crimson sleeves. 
And the Yank horse too. "Bluebottle.’ I shouldn’t 
bother though. Just go round s’though you was alone.” 



NATIONAL VELVET 


196 


99 


“You bin about all night?” 

“Won’t hurt this one night in the year. It’s nearly six. 
I’m going to get you some breakfast. Everyone’s about 
already.” 

“Shall I get up?” 

“No, you stop there. You’ll be warmer. No point 
taking you about till I’ve got to. I’m going to get 
some stuff somewhere to tan up your neck.” 

Mi left her with the map to study and went out. 
Velvet looked idly at the map but she seemed to learn 
nothing from it. The rain and the blackness and the 
night had beaten everything flat in her. “I wish Mi 
hadn’t told me so much,” she thought. “I like it to come 
to me while I’m doing it.” And she pushed the map 
slightly to one side and shut her mind against it. Mi came 
in with some coffee and slices of white bread and a 
square of butter. 

“Mi,” she said at once, “don’t tell me a thing more. 
I want just to slide along till it’s time thinking of nothing 
at all.” 

“Huhl” said Mi, putting the tray on the one chair, 
“think a race like this is won by luck?” 

“Everyone riding today” said Velvet, “knows more’n 
I do. I can’t win that way.” 

“What’s your way, then?” 

“Jus’ knowin’ The Piebald can do it, an’ tellin’ him so,” 
said Velvet, buttering her bread. 

“Easy with that butter,” said Mi. “Spread it thin. 
You’ve no stomach for grease. Here’s the stuff for your 
neck. It’s iodine. I borrowed it.” 

“Won’t it smell that blood-smell?” 

“It’ll wear off. We’ll put a drop of water to it so it 
won’t look so yellow. Bend your head down, let’s try.” 



“national velvet” 197 

Mi had mixed a drop or two in the tooth glass, and 
painted it on below the white cropped hair. “It's that 
queer hair of yours is the trouble,” said Mi. “Look like 
an albino.” 

“What’s that?” 

“Soft chaps. Soft-shell chaps, like eggs.” 

“Gimme the cap an’ le’s look.” 

Mi dived into the suitcase and pulled out a black 
silk cap. Velvet drew it over her cropped hair and well 
over her eyes. 

“It’s not too bad,” said Mi. “Not much hair shows. 
The brown of your neck’s much better, but where’ll I end 
it off?” 

“Wash it round weaker an’ weaker with water.” 

Mi did his best. 

Slowly the morning drew into wet daylight. 

“Now I’m going out to the horse,” said Mi. “I got 
him locked in an’ I got the key. I’ll pay the bill here. 
Don’t you move till twelve.” 

“All that time?” 

“You’ll give yourself away if you put your nose out. 
At twelve jus’ walk down with the bag an’ walk out an’ 
pop into the taxi.” 

“What taxi?” 

“He’ll be waiting. He don’ know nothing about 
you but he’s a chap I used to know. He’ll be here at 
twelve sharp waiting to pick you up. Ferret-faced chap 
but he’s all right.” 

“Where’ll I find you?” 

“He’ll bring you to where I want you, near the 
Course. I’ll have your dinner waiting for you.” 

“Don’ give me anything to eat. Mi. Not jus’ before 
like that I’ll never stand it.” 



198 "national velvet” 

“Not a ham sandwich?’’ said Mi, arrested at the door. 

“Oh my God,” said Velvet. 

The morning drifted by. Velvet rose and became the 
little man. At twelve to the tick he walked sharply down 
the stairs carrying his suitcase. He had padded shoulders, 
a common suit, a dingy white shirt and pale blue tie, a 
brownish overcoat with a half belt and Mi’s old Homburg 
hat spotted with oil. 

The taxi was there, the little man nodded and stepped 
inside. Under his coat he had an empty heart. He was 
crushed by delay and the rain. 

The taxi took him through the mean streets for 
twenty minutes. It seemed impossible that so great a 
racecourse could lie buried in so mean a place. Suddenly 
there was a clearing on the right, and gates. Like the 
clearing and the gates of a cemetery lying in the surf of a 
metropolis. The taxi stopped and the little man leant 
out of the window. Mi walked towards him from the 
corner of a fence. 




* 


Chapter XIII 


This was the North with its everlasting white railings. 
The stands were filling already. The Union Jack, Stars 
and Stripes, and Tricolour flew over the Grand Stand. 
The minor bookies under their stand-umbrellas had been 
in position since eleven. Their fantastic names were 
chalked on boards so that they looked like a fresh haul of 
fish in a market. “Special this Day I Bream . . . Ernie 
Bream . . . Alfy Haddock . . . Mossie Halibut . . . 
Duke Cod!” They were shouting and clattering and 
taking turns in gangs at the Snack Bar. Everything else 
was more or less awaiting the glory of the day. “Cham- 
pagne Bar . . . Champagne only.” This was empty. 
Inside the dining-room the white tables were spread and 
the knowing old waiters hung like old flies swarming in 
doorways. 

The police had marched out in a dark stream an hour 
before and had taken up positions round the Course. 
There was a constable at every jump with a folded 
stretcher laid beside him, its rug within its folds. Each 
man had a red flag and a yellow flag, with which to call 
his neighbour. 

The Public was flowing in like a river. 

The whole course was blackening on the rim like a 
lake that has thrown up seaweed upon its banks. It had 
been black since daylight, but the seaweed was deepening 
and deepening, the truckway was solid with life, the ten- 
shilling Stand at the Canal Turn was groaning, the 
Melling Road, which crossed the Course, from being an 

199 o 



200 


NATIONAL VELVET 


99 


CC 


ivory band across the green became an ebony. Great 
passenger aeroplanes hummed over the stands and made 
their descent. A foreign king and queen arrived in Lord 
Sefton’s box. 

Tattersalls was like a thawed ice-rink. Pools had long 
appeared over the course. Thousands and thousands of 
people were wet, but not yet to the skin. And they hardly 
felt it. 

The Changing Room for jockeys was warm and gay 
like a busy nursery. Jockeys’ valets, with the air of 
slightly-derelict family butlers, had been ironing in their 
shirt-sleeves since seven in the morning. Two large coal 
fires behind nursery wire-guards were burning briskly, 
and over the guards hung strips of colour. Gipsy silks 
were all across the long tables stretched down the middle, 
and the valets ironed and pressed and swore and grunted 
and cleaned soft boots and hunted for odds and ends in 
their enormous suitcases, the travelling houses of their 
livelihood. Down one side of the room hung little 
saddles, touching little saddles. Below them saddle- 
cloths, numnahs, girths. Below them on the boot boxes 
countless little boots. Black boots with brown tops so 
soft you could hardly walk in them. Boots like gloves 
that are drawn on to a child’s ankle, and filled out with a 
child’s toes. Boots as touching as the saddles. 

Outside in the Weighing Room the hooded scales had 
been uncloaked and the Clerk of the Scales was already 
at his desk. The Declaration Counter had its pens and 
inks and its stacks of empty forms waiting to be filled. 

In the hospital room the nurse put a few more coals, 
delicately with her coal pincers, on to the bright fire. 

While the second race was being run Mi signed 
“Michael Taylor” at the foot of his declaration card, and 



“NATIONAL VELVET” 201 

paused a second higher up the card. “James Tasky" he 
wrote firmly. Then filled in the horse's name. He blotted 
the card and passed it into the bos. 

Then he went back to a little haunt of his. 

* * * * 

“Now . . ." he said, half an hour later, crooking his 
finger in the doorway, and the little man picked up his 
suitcase and followed him. 

“I'll take that," said Mi huskily. 

Mi hustled the little man in past the unsaddling en- 
closure to the holy stillness of the Weighing Room, 
and through the swing door into a comer of the Changing 
Room, pushing him down on a boot-box overshadowed 
by hanging garments. 

“They're nak . . gasped the little man, sitting 
down. 

“Tscht 1" muttered Mi, standing over him. 

The jockeys' valets bustled here and there, grumbled, 
stumbled, fell over boots. Two of their charges with 
hard red faces and snowy bodies were standing naked by 
the nursery fireguard. MI looked grimly down at the 
little man. 

“Keep yer eyes on yer knees," he muttered fiercely. 
And knelt to hold up the white breeches he had fished out 
of the suitcase. 

“Who's your lady-friend?" said one of the naked 
midgets, turning round to warm his other buttock. 

“Miss Tasky. From Russia," said Mi without a 
flicker. 

“Speak English?" said the midget, turning again like a 
chicken on a spit. 

“No use wasting any dope on him," said Mi. “Can't 



202 “NATIONAL VELVET” 

speak a bloody word. He’s a Bolshie they’ve sent over. 
To pick the winnings !” 

“You sim to be doing the lady-friend to the lady- 
friend alright?” 

“Doin’ what I’m paid for/’ said Mi. “Times are ugly 
down South. I ony jus’ come up.” 

“Well, of all the muck-rakin’ cheek,” said the other 
naked midget scratching his stomach . . . “that’s that 
Tasky’s riding that out-a-condition, pot-bellied whisky 
horse I saw brought in last night. Turnin’ the Gran’ 
National into a bloody circus !” and he cracked the end 
bone of his index finger like a pistol shot. 

“Come on, Bibby, get dressed do,” begged an austere 
butler. “Going to ride the National in your pink skin?” 

As Bibby turned away Tasky stood up gently, black, 
pink sleeves, black cap, white breeches, little black boots, 
brown tops. Mi pulled the saddle, saddle cloth and 
numnah, off the ironbracket. “Sit down an’ wait,” he 
said loudly as to a foreigner, pushed him back on the 
boot-box and stood over him. 

Then, on the door opening, “They want you for the 
chair,” he said. 

“Thought he didn’t understand English,” said a voice. 

“No reason why ’e shouldn’t begin,” said Mi. 
“CHAIR, I said,” he yelled into Tasky’s ear. “Come 
on!” 

Outside in the Weighing Room all was quiet and 
regulated. “That’s a toff,” thought Mi, seeing a tall man 
get off the chair. He was obviously a gentleman rider, a 
“bumper.” 

“Weight?” said the Clerk of the Scales. 

“Ten seven, near enough,” said Mi. “He don’t speak 
no English, sir. Russian.” 



“ NATIONAL VELVET” 203 

Mi pushed the little man towards the scales. “Sit, can’t 
you,” he said in a hoarse whisper. “Double up !” 

Tasky sat in the chair and nursed his saddle. 

“Ten six and eleven,” said the Clerk’s assistant. 

“Penny piece,” said the Clerk quietly, and dropped a 
small piece of lead into the weight flap. 

“An’ a half,” said the Clerk. In went another piece. 
The Clerk wrote carefully in his book. 

“Get off,” hissed Mi. Tasky never budged. 

Mi gave him a pull. “Job, sir, this is,” he said. “Seems 
more nitwit than . . .” he bustled the little man out of 
the room, throwing his brown overcoat round his 
shoulders. 

“Who’s that?” said someone, opening the door of the 
Steward’s Room. 

“The Russian, sir,” said the Clerk of the Scales 
looking up at the Clerk of the Course. 

The heavy, streaming daylight broke on them. The 
worst for Mi was over, the worst for Velvet to come. 

“Keep in the crowd,” said Mi. “I got to go for the 
horse. Keep movin’. Don’t come out into the open. 
Don’t rush at the horse when you see me lead him out. I 
got to go roun’ and round. Wait till you see the others 
walk in to the Paddock . . 

“Paddock?” 

“Rails. There. Walk straight up to near me and 
stand by the bushes in the middle. I’ll lead him up to 
you. I’ll jump you up.” 

“Jump me up?” 

“Jump you. I gotta take yer knee an’ jump you. Like 
the horse was too high fer you to get on. I’ll take yer 
coat and I’ll lead you out an’ that’s all I can do for 
you.” 



204 “national velvet” 

“You going now?” said Velvet, small, small in 
voice. 

“Fm going. An 9 I got togs. You’ll see. White 
leading rein an all. Borrowed ’em off a head lad, friend o’ 
mine.” 

Mi was gone and Velvet drifted through the crowd. 

But suddenly Mi was back again. “Keep your eyes 
skinned an’ keep AWAY from everyone who’ll talk !” 
he hissed, and was gone again. 

The crowd buzzed round the Tote, and many looked 
curiously at Velvet’s black cap and bony childish face. 
She was not unlike an apprentice lad. 

The horses were parading in the Paddock. There came 
The Piebald. Velvet stared at him in shivering ap- 
preciation. He wore borrowed clothes with a knotted 
yellow rope bumping on his quarters. Mi led him with 
a white leading rein, wide like a tape. The number ... 4 
. . . was tied on Mi’s left arm. As he came into the 
Paddock a buzz came from the crowd and here and there 
laughter. Round and round went the horses, and the 
rain down Velvet’s neck. 

Suddenly she saw the little men go in. Wide shoulders, 
gay caps and little feet. She walked forward, entered the 
Paddock, and went straight to the bushes. There was a 
pause. The horses circled. Every jockey went up to his 
Owner. She alone had no one. She stood firm and 
looked around her, conscious that this was her worst 
moment this morning. 

Then up came Mi with The Piebald. She stripped her 
coat off and he held it on his arm, pulled the rugs off the 
horse on to his shoulder, stooped to her left leg and 
flung her up into the saddle. Almost at once the horses 
moved away. Mi walking beside her to the gate. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


«c 


» 


205 


She was quite definite, quite easy. Now it was over, 
the creeping like a thief, the doubts, the waiting. No one 
would stop her now. The worst moments had come and 
gone, and there could be no doubt at all that now she and 
The Piebald were in together for the Grand National. 

“There ... I never told you,” said Mi, low and 
hoarse walking beside her. “Don’t lie up on his neck ! 
But it’s too late now . . .” 

“Ssh,” said Velvet, looking straight ahead of her 
at something that seemed like a crane upon a raised 
embankment. 

“I’ll not c ssh’i” said Mi his heart bursting. “I’ll say 
“Think of yerma!’” 

He snipped off the leading rein by its chromium hook 
and The Piebald swung through the gate. 

“Gawd . . . a’might . . .” said Mi, struck short. “I 
never told her to ride down in front of the Stands before 
going to the post . . 

But for Velvet it was only follow-my-leader. She 
went down easily with the other horses, turned, stood 
slightly in her saddle, and galloped back. Mi started 
running for the truckway. “I’ll never make Becher’s . . . 
not in this crowd. Not unless there’s a muck-up at 
the post.” 

Just ahead of him, turning out from the stable- 
roadway, came the black motor ambulance, with the 
doctor sitting sideways in the back, looking at a paper. 
Behind the ambulance, from the same turning, crawled 
out a sinister, square-bottomed coffin, a knacker’s cart, 
drawn by an enormous pigeon-chested shire-horse. 
Ahead of the ambulance, and blockihg the way, went the 
horse ambulance, with its crane, drawn by two shire 
horses in tandem. All made their way to Becher’s 



20 6 “national velvet” 

Another knacker’s cart -was trundling along far away by 
Valentine’s, and yet another pushed its way in Melling 
Road. 

“Black slugs . . said Mi, running, panting, pushing. 
* * * * 

At the post the twenty horses were swaying like the 
sea. Forward. . . . No good! Back again. Forward. 
. . . No good ! Back again. 

The line formed . . . and rebroke. Waves of the sea. 
Drawing a breath . . . breaking. Velvet fifth from the 
rail, between a bay and a brown. The Starter had long 
finished his instructions. Nothing more was said aloud, 
but low oaths flew, the cursing and grumbling flashed 
like a storm. An eye glanced at her with a look of hate. 
The breaking of movement was too close to movement 
to be borne. It was like water clinging to the tilted rim of 
the glass, like the sound of the dreaded explosion after the 
great shell has fallen. The will to surge forward overlaid 
by something delicate and terrible and strong, human 
obedience at bursting-point, but not broken. Horses’ 
eyes gleamed openly, men’s eyes set like chips of steel. 
Rough man, checked in violence, barely master of 
himself, barely master of his horse. The Piebald omin- 
ously quiet, and nothing coming from him . . . up went 
the tape. 

The green Course poured in a river before her as she 
lay forward, and with the plunge of movement sat in the 
stream. 


* * * * * 

“Black slugs” . . . said Mi, cursing under his breath, 
ru nn i ng , dodging, suffocated with the crowd. It was the 



NATIONAL VELVET 


99 


£< 


207 


one thing he had overlooked, that the crowd was too 
dense ever to allow him to reach Becher’s in the time. 
Away up above him was the truckline, his once-glorious 
free seat, separated from him by a fence. “God’s liver . 
he mumbled, his throat gone cold, and stumbled into an 
old fool in a mackintosh. “Are they off ? 55 he yelled at the 
heavy crowd as he ran, but no one bothered with him. 

He was cursed if he was heeded at all. He ran, gauging 
his position by the cranes on the embankment. Velvet 
coming over Becher 5 s in a minute and he not there to see 
her. “They’re off . 55 All around him a sea of throats 
offered up die gasp. 

He was opposite Becher’s but could see nothing: 
the crowd thirty deep between him and the Course. 
All around fell the terrible silence of expectancy. Mi 
stood like a rock. If he could not see then he must use his 
ears, hear. Enclosed in the dense, silent, dripping 
pack he heard the thunder coming. It roared up on the 
wet turf like the single approach of a multiple-footed 
animal. There were stiffed exclamations, grunts, thuds. 
Something in the air flashed and descended. The first 
over Becher’s ! A roar went up from the crowd, then 
silence. The things flashing in the air were indistinguish- 
able. The tip of a cap exposed for the briefest of seconds. 
The race went by like an express train, and was gone. 
Could Velvet be alive in that? 

Sweat ran off Mi’s forehead and into his eyes. But 
it was not sweat that turned the air grey and blotted 
out the faces before him. The ground on all sides seemed 
to be smoking. An extraordinary mist, like a low prairie 
fire was formed in the air. It had dwelt heavily all day 
behind the Canal, but the whole of the Course had 
remained dear till now. And now, before you could turn 



208 “national velvet” 

to look at your neighbour, his face was gone. The mist 
blew in shreds, drifted, left the crowd clear again but hid 
the whole of the Canal Corner, fences, stand and horses. 

There was a struggle going on at Becher’s; a horse 
had fallen and was being got out with ropes. Mi’s legs 
turned to water and he asked his neighbour gruffly 
“who’s fallen?” But the neighbour, straining to the tip 
of his toes, and glued to his glasses, was deaf as lead. 

Suddenly Mi lashed round him in a frenzy. “Who’s 
fallen, I say? Who’s hurt !” 

“Steady on,” said a little man whom he had prodded in 
the stomach. 

“Who’s fallen?” said Mi desperately. “I gotta brother 
in this . . .” 

“It’s his brother!” said the crowd all around him. 
“Let him through.” 

Mi was pushed and pummelled to the front and re- 
mained embedded two from the front line. The horse 
that had fallen was a black horse, its neck unnaturally 
stretched by the ropes that were hauling it from the ditch. 

There was a shout and a horse, not riderless, but ridden 
by a tugging, cursing man, came galloping back through 
the curling fumes of the mist, rolled its wild eye at the 
wrong side of Becher’s and disappeared away out of the 
Course. An uproar began along the fringes of the 
crowd and rolled back to where Mi stood. Two more 
horses came back out of the mist, one riderless. The 
shades of others could be discerned in the fog. Curses 
rapped out from unseen mouths. 

“What’s happened at the Canal Turn? What’s wrong 
down at the Turn?” 

“The whole field!” shouted a man. The crowd took it 
up. 



NATIONAL VELVET 






ZQ<) 


“The field’s out. The whole field’s come back. There’s 
no race !” It was unearthly. Something a hundred yards 
down there in the fog had risen up and destroyed the 
greatest steeplechase in the world. 

Nineteen horses had streamed down to the Canal Turn, 
and suddenly, there across the Course, at the boundary of 
the fog, four horses appeared beyond Valentines, and 
among them, fourth, was The Piebald. 

“Yer little lovely, yer little lovely,” yelled Mi, wringing 
his hands and hitting his knees. “It’s her, it’s him, it’s me 
brother!” 

No one took any notice. The scene immediately 
before them occupied all the attention. Horses that had 
fallen galloped by riderless, stirrups flying from their 
saddles, jockeys returned on foot, covered with mud, 
limping, holding their sides, some running slowly and 
miserably over the soggy course, trying to catch and sort 
the horses. 

“It’s ‘Yellow Messenger,’ ” said a jockey savagely, 
who had just seized his horse. “Stuck on the fence 
down there and kicking hell.” And he mounted. 

“And wouldn’t they jump over him?” called a girl 
shrilly. 

“They didn’t wanter hurt the por thing, lady,” said the 
jockey, grinning through his mud, and rode off. 

“Whole lot piled up and refused,” said a man 
who came up the line. “Get the Course clear now, 
quick!” 

“They’re coming again!” yelled Mi, watching the 
galloping four. “Get the Course clear! They’ll be 
coming!” 

They were out of his vision now, stuck down under 
Becher’s high fence as he was. Once past Becher’s on the 



2X0 “national velvet” 

second round would he have time to extricate himself and 
get back to the post before they were home? He stood 
indecisively and a minute went by. The Course in front of 
him was clear. Horses and men had melted. The hush of 
anticipation began to fall. “They’re on the tan again,” 
said a single voice. Mi flashed to a decision. He could 
not afford the minutes to be at Becher’s. He must get 
back for the finish and it would take him all his time. He 
backed and plunged and ducked, got cursed afresh. 
The thunder was coming again as he reached the road 
and turned to face the far-off Stands. This time he could 
see nothing at all, not even a cap in the air. “What’s 
leading? What’s leading?” 

“Big brown. Tantibus, Tantibus. Tantibus leading.” 

‘Where’s The Piebald?” 

“See that! Leonora coming up . . .” 

They were deaf to his frantic questions. He could not 
wait, but ran. The mist was ahead of him again, driving 
in frills and wafting sedgily about. Could Velvet have 
survived Becher’s twice? In any case no good wondering. 
He couldn’t get at her to help her. If she fell he would 
find her more quickly at the hospital door than struggle 
through the crowd and be forbidden the now empty 
Course. 

Then a yell. “There’s one down !” 

“It’s the Yank mare I” 

The horse ambulance was trundling back with Yellow 
Messenger from the Canal Turn. Mi leapt for a second 
on to the turning hub of the wheel, and saw in a flash, 
across the momentarily mist-clear course, the pride of 
Baltimore in the mud underneath Valentine’s. The 
Piebald was lying third. The wheel turned and he could 
see no more. Five fences from the finish; he would not 



“national velvet” 21 1 

allow himself to hope, but ran and ran. How far away the 
Stands in the gaps of the mist as he pushed, gasping, 
through the people. Would she fall now? What had 
he done, bringing her up here? But would she fall now? 
He ran and ran. 

“They’re coming on to the Racecourse . . . coming 
on to the Racecourse . . 

“How many?” 

“Rain, rain, can’t see a thing.” 

“How many?” 

Down sank the fog again, as a puff of wind blew and 
gathered it together. There was a steady roaring from the 
Stands, then silence, then a hub-bub. No one could see 
the telegraph. 

Mi, running, gasped, “Who’s won?” 

But everyone was asking the same question. Men were 
running, pushing, running, just as he. He came up to the 
gates of Melling Road, crossed the road on the fringe of 
file tan, and suddenly, out of the mist The Piebald 
galloped riderless, lolloping unsteadily along, reins 
hanging, stirrups dangling. Mi burst through on to the 
Course, his heart wrung. 

“Get back there!” shouted a policeman. “Loose 
horse 1” 

“Hullo Old Pie there!” shouted Mi. The animal, 
soaked, panting, spent, staggered and slipped and drew 
up. 

“What’ve you done with ’er?” said Mi weeping, and 
bent down to lift the hoof back through the rein. “You 
ler ’er down. Pie? What in God’s sake?” He led the 
horse down the Course, running, his breath catching, his 
heart thumping, tears and rain on his face. 

Two men came towards him out of the mist. 



212 


NATIONAL VELVET 


« 


99 


“You got him?” shouted one. “Good fer you. 
Gimme 1” 

“You want him?” said Mi, in a stupor, giving up the 
rein. 

“Raised an objection. Want him for the enclosure. 
Chap come queer.” 

“Chap did? What chap?” 

“This here’s the winner! Where you bin all day, 
Percy?” 

“Foggy,” said Mi. “Very foggy. Oh my God.” 

* * * * 

Back in the fog a voice had spoken into a telephone. 
It had need only to say one word. All else had been 
written out beforehand. And in that very second in the 
offices of the Associated Press in New York men had 
taken off the message. 

“Urgent Associated New York Flash Piebald Wins.” 
The one word the voice had said into the fog was 
“Piebald.” 


* * * * 

Up went the red flag. The crowd buzzed. “What is 
it?” “Did he faU?” 

“Must’ve hurt hisself jumping . . 

“Fainted.” 

“Jus’ dismounted, the sflly b . . 

Dismounted before reaching the unsaddling enclosure. 
Objection. Up went the red flag. There was tenseness 
along the line of private bookies, pandemonium in the 
bookies’ stand under the umbrellas, tight knots gathered 
round the opening to the Weighing Room, behind 
which was the Steward’s Room. Glasses were levelled 



“national velvet” 213 

from everywhere upon the board. If a white flag went up 
the objection was over-ruled. If a green it was sustained. 
But the red remained unwaveringly. 

“Taken him round to the hospital.” 

“Stretcher, was it?” 

“Jus’ gone through where all those people are . . 

The doctor had got back from his tour of the Course 
in his ambulance. Two riders had already been brought 
in and the nurse had prepared them in readiness for 
his examination. Now the winner himself coming in 
on a stretcher. Busy thirty minutes ahead. 

“Get him ready, Sister.” 

The winner lay unconscious wrapped in a horse 
blanket, his face mottled with the mud that had leapt up 
from flying hoofs. 

“Looks sixteen,” said the doctor curiously, and knelt 
to turn the gas a little lower under the forceps. 

“Bin boiling for twenty minutes,” said the Sister. 

“Place full of steam,” said the doctor. “Been watch- 
ing . . . ?” and he passed to the end cubicle. 

“No,” said the Sister shortly to his back. She disliked 
the Grand National, and had waited behind the Stands to 
patch up the damage. 

The constables with the stretcher placed the winner on 
the bed by the door, leaving him still wrapped in his 
blanket. They retired and closed the door. The Sister 
slipped a towel under the muddy head, and turning back 
the blanket started to undo the soaking jacket of black 
silk. 

“Sister,” roared the doctor from another cubicle. . . . 
“No, stay where you are! Pve got it !” 

“Could you come here a minute?” said the Sister, 
at his side a few minutes later. 



214 “national velvet” 

The doctor straightened his back. He had a touch of 
lumbago. C< 1 ? 11 be back, Jem/’ he said. “You’re not much 
hurt. Cover up. Yes?” 

“Just a minute . . . over here.” 

She whispered to him quietly. He slapped his rain- 
coated cheek and went to the bed by the door. “Put 
your screens round.” She planted them. “Constable,” 
he said, poking his head out of the door, “get one of the 
Stewards here, will you.” (The roar of the crowd came 
in at the door.) “One of the Stewards ! Quick’s you can. 
Here, I’ll let you in this side door. You can get through.” 
The crowd seethed, seizing upon every sign. 

* * * * 

Mi crouched by the door without daring to ask after 
his child. He heard the doctor call. He saw the Steward 
go in. “Anyway,” he thought, “they’ve found out at 
once. They would. What’s it matter if she’s all right. 
She’s won, the little beggar, the little beggar. Oh my 
God.” 


* * * * 

The Sergeant of Police was by the Stables. “Message 
from up there,” he said briefly to his Second. “Squad to 
go up to the hospital door. Row round the door. Some- 
thing up with the winner.” 

The police marched up in a black snake. The people 
fell back. An ambulance came in from the Ormskirk 
Road and backed down the line of police. The red flag re- 
mained for a moment , then slowly the green flag mounted 
on the board. Objection sustained. A frightful clamour 
burst out in the Grand Stand. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


93 


CC 


215 


In the Steward’s Room the glittering Manifesto looked 
down out of his frame and heard the low talk of this 
appalling desecration. A butcher’s girl on a piebald 
horse had pounced up beside him into history. 

“Got her off?” said one of the Stewards in a low 
voice. 

“Just about. There was a bit of a rush for a second. 
She called out something as the stretcher was being 
shoved in. Called out she was all right . . . to somebody 
in the crowd. Good God it’s . . . I’m glad we got her 
off quick. The crowd’s boiling with excitement.” 

“How’d it get out so quick?” 

“Idunno. Swell row this’ll be. It’ll have to be referred 
back to Weatherby’s.” The Clerk of the Course came in. 
“Crowd’s bubbling like kettles out there. Lord Henry. 
By jove, it’s the biggest ramp. How’d she pull it over?” 

“Who’s gone with her?” 

“The doctor couldn’t go. He’s got two other men, 
one a baddish crash at Valentine’s.” 

“Well somebody ought to a’ gone. Find out who’s 
gone, will you?” 

The Clerk of the Course disappeared. 

“Tim’s Chance wins, of course.” 

“Yes, that’s been announced. There’s no question. 
The objection is sustained definitely here on the Course, 
and the rest must be referred to London. There’ll 
be a special of the N.H.C., I should think it might be a 
case for legal proceedings. Well . . (as the door 
opened) “did you find out who went with her?” 

“A second doctor, Lord Henry. A young man who’s 
here very often. Friend of Doctor Bodie’s. And a 
constable.” 

“There should have been an official. Of course there 



should have been an official. What’s the hospital?” 

“Liverpool Central . . 

“Isn’t there a friend or relation with her?” 

“Nobody.” 

“Well she called out to somebody !” 

“The somebody’s hidden himself all right. Well for 
him ! She’s quite alone s’far as we can make out.” 

“D’she say anything?” 

“Won’t speak. Except that one shout she gave.” 

“If my daughter’d done it,” said Lord Henry Vile, 
“I’d be . . .” he paused and stroked his lip with his 
finger. 

“Pretty upset, I should think . . .” 

“I wasn’t going to say that,” said Lord Henry. “No.” 



Chapter XIV 


Almost as soon as the ambulance was off the ground 
little breezes began to blow hither and thither bearing 
the fact. Without the name. A girl had won the Grand 
National. 

A girl had won the Grand National. By the look of 
the stretcher “a slip of a girl.” By the memory of the 
crouching black and pink ant on The Piebald again “a slip 
of a girl/ 5 The news began to crack like gunpowder 
trailed to percussion caps. At each percussion cap an 
explosion. At each explosion men flung, hurled about 
their business. 

The U.P. man on the roof of the Grand Stand went on 
with his telephoning (at two pounds a minute). He had 
laid his field glasses down now and was talking feverishly. 
“Urgent bulletin/ 5 he said violently, “astounding 
rumours circulating track. Is winning jockey girl? We 
up checking/ 5 And a little later, in his shorthand Chinese, 
“Steward’s decision. Quiz moved London.” 

As the ambulance turned into the Ormskirk Road the 
news had broken. It was flashing to London in waves 
of light, in waves of air. It was “breaking” on London. 
At first the smaller men flashed it, unscrupulous, out for 
speed at all costs. The graver men hung back. Verify, 
verify! It couldn't be. The serious sporting reporters, 
associated for a lifetime with the Turf felt it couldn’t be. 
Almost ... it had better not be. Such frivolity, but 
God . . . what news ! NEWS, sparkling, rainbow 
NEWS. London was disturbed, tickled, a few seconds 



218 " NATIONAL VELVET” 

before the graver men felt they could spring for it. Then 
they sprang. And the full blast swept down the lines 
and the airways. Like a whiff . . . the miraculous trans- 
mission of accurate, verified, imagination-shaking news. 
It could hardly be a scoop because before one could 
close the telephone box everyone knew it. But details 
. . . where was the girl? In a second, having delivered 
their blast on London, they turned like hounds after the 
girl. The ambulance was gone. Where? The Liverpool 
Central . . . Ah . . . The taxi rank was in the Orms- 
kirk Road. 

But once before the Liverpool Central had housed a 
Fame-Shaker. And the Resident Medical Officer was a 
grim fellow with yellow hair, blue eyes and set mouth. 
He had been through the war and he had been through 
that strange medical upbringing in a good Scottish 
hospital which gets into a man’s bones and transmutes 
him for ever from common humanity. He was steady 
and wily and fine, and he could act as quick as news could 
flash. And for reasons of his own connected with his 
attitude and their attitude towards truth and scientific 
thought he had a cold impatience of the press. 

The murmurs surrounding Velvet came with her like 
raindrops on the ambulance. She had not long been 
wheeled into the Women’s Accident Ward, and the 
Sister-in-Charge had hardly propped screens round her 
bed, before the Resident Medical Officer had mopped 
up the rumours, his curiously flat ears very wide awake. 

"Be down from Aintree,” he thought, "in a jiffy.” 

He found, actually, that they were already drawing up 
at the gates. 

The Resident M.O. closed the Ward doors and placed 
the constable who had come with the ambulance on duty. 



"national velvet” 219 

The constable was not sure it was his right duty . . . 

“Just a minute. Officer ...” said the Resident M.O. 
swiftly, increasing the constable’s rank and giving him 
a cold-water flash out of the blue eyes. “Not more than 
a second while we wheel her into a private ward. Can’t 
have the Press in round the bed. I think you’ll find 
that’s why you were asked to whip out of Aintree. Right 
ahead. Sister. ’Nother blanket over her . . . ( right over 
her) when you get her on the trolley.” 

Twowhite-coatedmen sped downthe ward withatrolley. 

“Over your face, girl, too, for a minute,” said the 
Resident M.O., leaving the constable at the door and 
going down the ward to meet the trolley. “It’s all right. 
Want to get you into another ward. Quiet.” 

A nurse sprang to push the double doors back on to 
their catches for the trolley to pass. 

A Press Association man approached the M.O. 

“Let the trolley pass,” said the M.O. abruptly. “Stand 
back. Operation case.” 

The trolley passed swiftly out of view under the nose 
of bowler-hatted men who were arriving. 

But the balloon of notoriety wasn’t going to stay on the 
ground just because of the Principal M.O. The Press 
Bellows had now begun to blow and the balloon to lift. 

Yet the little creature still lay snug like a kernel in 
the private ward of the Liverpool Central, with the door 
locked and a Sister giving her a blanket bath. Then in 
ramp, tea on a tray, two meat sandwiches cut in triangles, 
a chocolate bun in a paper, a rice bun, a piece of plum 
cake and two slices of white bread and butter. Velvet 
snuggled down and began to wonder what next and what 
fipxt and when the heavens were going to fell. And above 
all where was Mi? 



220 “NATIONAL VELVET"’ 

Mi, rubbing down the piebald horse in the stables 
at Aintree, was bearing the brunt of everything. He was 
knee-deep in the press, he was wanted in the Steward’s 
Room, he was wanted by everybody. Even the book- 
makers would have liked to get at him. 

“This horse won the National, ain’t it? This horse ’as 
got to be rubbed down. I don’t know a thing ’cept that 
I was hired to do over the horse. Hired at the last 
minute. Well . . . what? Well if I’m wanted in the 
Steward’s room I’ll have to go. But this horse 
wants rubbin’ and rubbin’. Who’s going to do it for 
me?” 

There were plenty of offers. There were even men 
who had a nodding knowledge of him. 

“Why, Mi, you old tout . . . who’s your lady friend? 
Mean to say you didn’t know? What about the Changing 
Room? You pulled her breeches on, didn’t you?” 

“How was I to know? She got pants on, ha’n’t she? 
A girl an’ a boy they’re that alike you gotter have the 
pants off to see? I on’y know she couldn’t speak a word 
a’ King’s English, an’ was s’flat’s a pancake and as 
dumb’s an oyster . . . Cornin’, Sir . . . Rub him well 
. . . Give his back-line a massage . . . under the saddle. 
Makes the blood flow . . . I’ll be back in a minute. I 
got nothing to say to ’em. Stewards . . . My hat ! . . . 
Cornin’ sir !” 

In the Steward’s room nothing could be got out of 
Mi. He was heavy-minded, obstinate and repetitive. 
Lord Henry Vile did not look as though he believed him, 
and finally it was decided to take his address and refer 
the inquest to London, at a special meeting of the 
National Hunt Committee. Mi gave his address as Post 
Restante, Lewes. 



“ NATIONAL VELVET” 221 

“Fishy sort of address,” said Colonel ‘Ruby’ Allbrow, 
looking at him straight. 

“I can’t hide, sir,” said Mi, suddenly looking as straight 
back. “I’m known here to lots, an’ I’m known there. 
The police’d lay their hands on me in a day ’f I was to 
monkey up.” 

“And the horse?” 

“Horse goes back to the owner, sir. Horse-box is 
coming for it tonight.” 

“And not you?” 

“Not me, sir.” 

“And the owner’s address . . . We have the owner’s 
address, Mr. Gray?” 

“Yes, we have the address,” said the official. “The 
owner must be behind it all, m’lord, if you’ll excuse me 
interrupting.” 

“Yes . . . that’ll be looked into. Letter must be sent 
and so on. Who’s going down to the hospital?” 

A spasm crossed Mi’s face. He opened his mouth but 
said nothing. Velvet alone in that hospital. ’S sick as a 
cat. But there were doctors an’ all that. It’d soon be 
in the papers how she was. 

Velvet lay in the hospital refusing her name. She and 
Mi had no plan beyond the winning of the Grand 
National. How should they? They had bitten off a piece 
of dream together, and like winged children accomplished 
it. Beyond, all was an uncharted sea. They had not had 
one glance at life after the winning. 

Still by instinct she refused her name. The heavens 
were going to fall. Father was going to know, the 
village was going to know, Edwina was going to say 
sarcastic things because Teddy didn’t like all the fuss. 
There was going to be trouble for her and Mi, though 



222 “NATIONAL VELVET” 

pure white glory for The Piebald. And the longer she 
kept her name secret the slower the trouble would be in 
coming. She lay and smiled wanly, and shook her clipped 
white head. 

Indeed she wasn’t pressed enormously to tell. The 
M.O. didn’t care a rap about her name, and the Sister-in- 
Charge of her simply washed her and fed her and choked 
back her curiosity because she too had had a cold-water 
flash from the blue eyes of the hospital’s Despot. The 
young doctor who had brought Velvet down had dis- 
appeared, but he came back later accompanied by Dr. 
Bodie from Aintree and the Clerk of the Course himself. 

The M.O. stared at them with his curious look and 
told them quietly that they must not stay more than five 
minutes with the patient. The Sister was present at the 
interview: The Clerk of the Course asked formally for 
Velvet’s name and address. Dr. Bodie blustered a little 
when Velvet sighed and said shyly she couldn’t give it. 
The young doctor said nothing. He was more than 
thrilled whichever way the situation turned. At the end 
of five minutes the M.O. came to say it was time. 

“Shock,” said the M.O. with a grudging apology in 
the corridor. “Very young.” 

After they had gone the M.O. came back. “Sorry, I 
must have your name for hospital purposes,” he said, 
and he pulled the silver pencil out of his note-book. 

Velvet looked up with confidence into the ledger of 
that secure face, and said at once “Velvet Brown,” and 
spelt the address clearly for him. 

“Age?” he said. 

“Fourteen. Nearly fifteen.” 

“There’ll be a doctor up to go over you in a few 
minutes. Dr. Bodie tells me there’s nothing broken.” 



NATIONAL VELVET 




cc 


223 


“I didn't fall off/' said Velvet. “I slid off After the 
post. I couldn't feel my knees." 

“Feel any pain anywhere?" 

“No thank you. I could have got up, only my legs ..." 

“All right. Right. Enjoyed your tea?" 

And the M.O. went, like an iron ghost, and the door 
closed invisibly behind him. 

At five-thirty she had a drink of bromide and chloral, 
and twenty minutes later the gates of the world closed 
down on her while the second batch of posters in London 
and Liverpool and all the great cities of England, France, 
Germany, Italy . . . fell slopily off the printing machines, 
were baled up, dispatched, and, drying, fluttered at street 
corners and receded on the backs of newspaper cars. 
“Drama of Winner of National this afternoon." “Un- 
known girl wins National." (This paper thought the 
fact so first-rate that there was no need to attract by 
mystery.) 

“Extraordinary affair at Aintree." 

“Piebald wins but disqualified. Rider found to be 
woman." 

Ten minutes later more posters . . . 

“Girl winner in Liverpool Central Hospital." 

In the great cities of America the boys were calling 
“Extra!" and the Stop Press of all the papers shone in 
green, red, and blue ink. From France the “Intransi- 
geant" and the “Paris Soir" sent two men over in aero- 
planes to Aintree. The Associated Press of America got 
an all-clear interview with the Clerk of the Course. In 
Shanghai the first 3.30 flash had just caught the last 
editions of the morning “North China Daily News." 
Rome and Berlin did not trouble themselves profoundly. 
The thing grew and grew and grew, and turned over on 



224 “national velvet” 

itself, and heaped itself up. People walked in the streets 
not knowing that the air quivered with question marks. 
The common air, not seeing or tasting or breathing any 
different, was heavy with one idea, one burden, an in- 
coming wave of query into England. This questioning 
air, sweeping through impediment in a silvery attack, 
poured round flesh, wood, and stone till it found the 
wireless masts and there, settling and transmuting itself 
into something more possible to human understanding, 
became the word of man. 

There was a pause. The queries massed like birds and 
waited, “We must know more!” cried every foreign 
agency and every newspaper. 

“You shall know more,” soothed the deep voice of 
Reuter, sedate and cautious, before it ringed the world 
with its answer. 

The reporters had been baffled at the Liverpool Central 
but Dr. Bodie was got at. Eager, in fact, to be got at. 

He could not tell the rider’s name but he described 
this and that, and after a while, the information having 
been looked over and binged up here and toned down 
there, and written almost all in most expensive plain 
language (that there should be no delay anywhere in 
decoding) Reuter sent round the world the following 
message. . . . “61610 Lead all stop Girl has won and 
lost Grand National stop Most sensational incident in 
Aintree history occurred today when discovered winning 
jockey mounted Piebald was young girl stop since women 
jockeys unallowed compete National Piebald disqualified 
by stewards stop Girl fainted after passing post carried 
ambulance room on stretcher where sex discovered by 
doctor who states age between 14-16 years stop faint 
due fatigue unserious injuries stop Girl who refused 



“national velvet” 225 

reveal identity rode under Russian jockey Taskys name 
stop Stewards National Hunt Committee ordered fullest 
investigation stop For woman to complete National 
course regarded as one most extraordinary feats in annals 
British racing stop drama mystery associated this amazing 
affair whipped up excitement feverpitch countrywide 
Result race now reads . . (and the names of the first 
three horses were given). 

As this message left London it flashed in a few seconds 
along the trunk lines that were being held open for it, 
through Egypt, to India, South Africa, Australia, and 
to Singapore and the Far East. From the arteries ran the 
veins. Men in Shanghai, Sydney, Capetown became 
disseminators almost at the same moment that they had 
been receivers. And in a steady spreading belt round the 
world ran the reply to the frantic queries. 

In each country there was a Smaller Proper Machinery 
to receive it and its re-distribution was carried out in 
eddies from the main encircling belt. In each country 
the Smaller Proper Machinery distributed it to the news- 
papers, and newspapers set it up in print, printed it, 
issued it, sold it, and it was read by white, brown, yellow, 
red and black men who exclaimed in their tongues — 
“Whew!” 

Heads of news agencies, heads of syndicates, heads of 
newspapers said in their various languages “This is a 
Press Ballyhoo. Spread all out on this. This is front-page 
stuff.” 

“We gotta be splurgy,” said a great man in New York. 
“Get that dame’s dope. She’s swell!” And he cabled 
“Ten thousand dollars for exclusive rights of personal 
story.” A girl in London got into a fast car and drove 
rapidly down to the coast. 



226 “national velvet” 

It was the great bellows of the Glory-Machine starting 
to blow. But it had not nearly got its wind up yet. The 
pink balloon of notoriety had hardly done more than 
shake loose its ropes and fill out. And the little creature 
whose name it bore lay very slight, very sheltered, under 
the deep and fumey blanket. 

jfc * * * 

“It's Velvet. Sure’s fate it’s Velvet,” said Mr. Brown, 
standing in the street doorway. “Come in, gentlemen!” 

“Mother I Hi I Come on in here !” he called. “Here’s 
our Velvet gone . . . I feel hot in the stomach, gentle- 
men. She ain’t hurt herself? (I gotta sit down.) She safe?” 

Mrs. Brown filled the inner doorway. 

“Mother,” said Mr. Brown, looking white and shaken, 
“our Velvet gone an’ won the Grand National. Ridden 
it herself . . 

Certainly Mrs. Brown’s eyes changed their colour in 
some way. They did not gleam. They were too high in 
their shallows for that, but a curious light seemed to 
shift in them. 

“She’s not one for words, sir,” said Mr. Brown, taking 
out his handkerchief and wiping his hands. (“Fingers 
gone all sticky. Takes me that way.) I can’t take it in 
what she done. Where is she, then?” 

“She’s in the Liverpool Central Hospital . . .” began 
one of the reporters. 

“Why?” said Mrs. Brown like a pistol shot. 

“Just fatigue, so we understand,” said the reporter. 

“They’re from the newspapers, mother,” said Mr. 
Brown. 

“She slipped off her horse, Mrs. Brown,” said the 
reporter. “Fainted after she had passed the winning post. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


ee 


99 


227 


No bones broken, no harm done. Is this the first you 
have heard of it?” 

“Papers don’t get here till seven,” said Mr. Brown. 
“On the Tilling’s bus.” He looked at his watch. “It’s 
a quarter of now.” 

“Then you have no doubt” said another reporter, 
“that the rider is also the owner, your daughter Velvet?” 

“He don’t even know,” said Mrs. Brown suddenly. 
“Don’t you tell him nothing, William. I know them.” 

“Why ever not?” said Mr. Brown. “She’s got a bit 
of a down on newspaper gentlemen, sir,” said he apolo- 
getically. “Haven’t you, mother? She had a bit of a 
bad time with ’em once.” 

“Tell ’em what you like. You’ve begun,” said Mrs. 
Brown, shutting the door. She crossed the room in 
majesty and went up to her room. 

Mr. Brown gave a lengthy interview only interrupted 
by the gentlemen’s desire to get away and to the telephone 
to catch the last edition of the evening papers. 

The reporters were shown the paper horses in the 
shell box. 

One of them thought the shell box touching, but did 
not say so. 

“Fresh, fresh, fresh an’ hot!” said another as they 
sped down the street. 

“Old lady’s bin in the news,” said another. “Wonder 
how?” 

“Bloody old cathedral !” said the first. 


* * * * 

In the morning at the Liverpool Central mother sat 
by Velvet’s bed (mother, carrying her washing things in 
her old “Art” bag). 



228 “national velvet” 

“I’ve come to take you home, dearie / 3 she said. 

Velvet, dazed with her sleep, still, and brilliantly happy, 
smiled through her dreams. 

“Nice kettle of fish / 3 said Mrs. Brown. 

“Travelled up through the night / 3 said mother. “You 
done well, Velvet / 3 

This was the summit, and Velvet felt the beating of 
glory. 1 

Before coming in mother had had a talk to the Resident 
Medical Officer and they discovered in their wordless 
way that they felt alike on certain subjects. It was found 
that Velvet could be taken out by the laundry entrance. 

“She 3 s ser little she could go in a laundry basket / 3 
said mother. 

“No need for that / 3 objected the M.O. who was 
against exaggeration. 

And Velvet (and Mrs. Brown with her, for her bulk 
had not yet become as famous as it did a few days later) 
went in the laundry van, its rear backed up against the 
Laundry Entrance. 

They reached the station in safety, for though the 
film of the Grand National had already been on the 
screens of thousands of cinema houses the night before, 
and the morning papers were alive with Mr. Brown 3 s 
interview, there were no pictures as yet (Mr. Brown 
had not dared to ask for the one off Mrs. Brown’s 
dressing-table), and the crouching black ant flashing 
by on the film bore no relation to the peaky young 
man walking beside the big woman to a third class 
carriage on the “Merseyside 33 as its engines got up steam, 

“Better you kep 3 ’em on / 3 Mrs. Brown had said in the 
van. “N’anyway I never thought to bring your others. 
Look the proper boy ! 33 



NATIONAL VELVET 


cc 




229 


The carriage was full, but no one’s attention was 
caught. Velvet behaved like the obscure child she thought 
herself to be. 

They reached London, crossed it on the Underground, 
and took the local train. 

A taxi stood in a dark corner of the station yard. As 
Velvet was pushed into its gloom by her mother she was 
caught by the eager hands of her sisters. “Velvet, 
Velvet . . . Oh Velvet, . . . What you got on? Coo 
lummy, she’s dressed like a boy J” 

“Ssh!” said mother. “Don’ talk so . . .” The taxi 
started off. 

“Velvet, it’s glorious! All the afternoon, ever since 
yesterday, everybody cornin’ to ask. We knew it was 
you las’ night when the newspaper men came. All the 
papers got pictures of us in, but it’s you they’re waiting 
to get! American girl come in a car, an’ the things she 
asked father said it made him hot to hear her. She said 
she gotta get your story.” 

“What story?” said Velvet. 

“Don’ talk ser much,” said mother. “She don’ know 
about all that yet.” 


* * * * 


When the celebrated child returned home that night 
she was able to walk under the triumphal arch which the 
villagers had built with haste in the morning. 

(And this arch, and this street opening, were the 
gateway to a village whose roofs and whose faces were 
the same but whose nature was changed to her. From 
now on she walked, fastened to that glory, whose teeth 
were sharp and held well, but whose wings were golden. 
She walked with an eagle on her back, observed by all.) 



230 “national velvet” 

As the station taxi turned into the narrow lane of the 
village, shouts and dangling lights brought it to a halt. 
There was a rope across the street, hung with lanterns, 
and by its light the glossy flutter of the leafy arch could 
be seen. Mr. Croom was at the taxi door, a bouquet 
of lit faces behind his shoulder, and Velvet was lifted 
out and walked under the arch and was carried home, 
rockily, on many shoulders. Mrs. Brown paid off the 
taxi, and strode with her face glum. She was reminded 
of Calais. 

In the living-room at home there was not room for 
everybody, and the villagers hung in the doorway and 
shuffled in a tail in the street. The bottle of port came 
out but there was not much in it, and Mr. Brown sent 
Mally out for more. It was not long before Mrs. Brown 
bore Velvet, like a child of paper, to her bedroom. 
“You’ll lay there,” she said, “an’ I’ll bring you your 
supper.” 

Greatest wonder, it was Edwina who brought her a 
hot-water bottle, who stayed to talk in marvelling 
whispers, and listened with Velvet to the clamour down 
below. Mother brought the tray up, cold salt beef and 
chopped beetroot and a cup of cocoa. Velvet nibbled 
gently, changed feet on her hot water-bottle, watched the 
dark sky through the undrawn curtains. 

“No one’s to come up,” said Mrs. Brown. And Velvet 
finished her supper and lay and waited for Mally and 
Merry, who came when the visitors had melted. 

Mi turned up, having mysteriously come by a later 
train for nothing. Velvet slipped on her clothes again. 

“You got up?” said Mrs. Brown as Velvet walked into 
the living-room. 

“It’s dark now. Pitch,” said Velvet, “I mus’ just go 



“national velvet” 2$ I 

up the field an’ fetch him in.” She turned and took her 
shell box of paper horses off the sideboard. 

“They seen that, Velvet.” 

“Who did?” 

“The newspaper men,” said Mr. Brown. But Velvet 
did not seem to understand. 

Mrs. Brown expanded her breast in an unusual and 
vigorous sigh. 

“She won’t pass no one now, though the whole village’s 
bin hanging round the horse from what I hear. Better let 
her go. She won’t pass no one ser late. Heigho ... I 
bin a darn donkey once in my life an’ it seems I bin it 
twice.” 

Velvet, dressed in her own clothes, went up the road 
between the ditches with Mally. The cats’ eyes gleamed 
and shifted and went out. Nettles and cats’ eyes and 
stars and stillness and not a soul about. The Piebald 
was flashing his colours under stars by the gate. The 
other horses hearing her step cantered down the slope 
whinnying. They greeted her with little jealous screams 
and lashings. 

“D’you know what you’ve done?” said Velvet to The 
Piebald, but he shook his head suddenly as though a 
night gnat was on it. 

“Wasa matter. Pie ole darling? Hasn’ he gone in at 
the haunches terrible, Mally? Just in one day.” 

“ . . . An’ what a day 1” said Mally. 

Velvet, her cheek on the top of the gate. Sir Pericles’ 
breath blew her hair. “The worse was I got my mouth 
open an’ couldn’t shut it because the wind dried it. 
What was your worse, Pie ole darling?” 

Velvet turned solemnly to Mally. “He’ll be in every 
book, Mally. He’ll be the horse of this year, that won it 

Q 



232 “national velvet” 

this year. Though they disqualify us they’ll never dare 
to drop him out altogether. He won’t be on the Aintree 
Roll of Honour . . .” 

“What’s that?” 

“A brown board with gold letters. But he’ll be in the 
books the writers write. The first piebald horse that 
ever won the National. By what I’ve heard about it 
they’ll try to buy him, but I’ll never sell him. SELL you. 
Piebald 1” 

“The poor others I” said Mally “Do they mind?” 

“No, no . . . Perides ! Little sweetie . . . Mrs. 
James ! You’re squealing, you jealous old woman. She’s 
tried to kick George, Mally. Get away . . . there . . .” 

“George deserves all he gets,” said Mally. “He pokes 
his nose in everywhere and it’s food he wants, not love. 
He and Mrs. James thought you’d come with a bucket.” 

“Come on. Piebald,” called Velvet, searching for the 
old halter they kept behind the wall. But The Piebald 
was cropping the cool night grass away with a layer of 
dark air between them, as though horses that had won 
the Grand National were turned out to grass in the early 
spring every night. Unceremonious and incredibly 
enduring, he moved away. 

“Come on,” said Mally, “I should leave him. It’s 
■warm. He won’t hurt. Mother said not to let you stay 
long. You’re dead tired.” 

“I gotta see Donald before I sleep,” said Velvet. 

“Donald?” 

“I thought about him the night I was going to ride. 
In that hotel bedroom. I was sick as anything . . .” 

“Oh, poor Velvet! An’ all alone!” 

“No, Mi kep’ cornin’ in an’ out. 1 thought about if 
I Vas killed an’ never saw Donald again. On’y for a 



“national velvet” 233 

flash, but I thought it.” 

“Funny thing to think. Why Donald?” 

“It was funny. But I thought it anyway,” said Velvet 
doggedly. “I mus’ jus’ see him when I go in.” 

They entered the house. 

“Velvet wants to see Donald,” said Mally, somewhat 
aggrieved. 

“I wanter kiss him in his bed,” said Velvet. 

“She’s overstrung,” said Mrs. Brown. “Go on up, 
he’s dead asleep.” 

Donald lay flung out in an abandoned and charming 
attitude. His eye-lashes were tender, bronze and shadowy; 
his hair a touch damp. The strangeness of his youth and 
exposed face, his battle for power by day and his abdi- 
cation by night was something that Velvet had hardly 
expected. A gateway drew open within her and the 
misery and wild alarm of life rushed in. 

“Velvet’s crying over Donald 1” said Mally aghast, 
running down to the living-room. 

“Carry her to her bed, father,” said Mrs. Brown calmly. 
“It’s to be expected.” 




236 “national velvet” 

“That’s what we’ll do/’ said Mrs. Brown surprisingly, 
“if it don’t blow over in a day or two. It’s not but what 
I’m not proud of you, Velvet. But what’s the good of 
you standing up for them gaping loonies to look at. 
They can’t get no more out of you than they have done. 
You done your best up at Aintree and that ought to be 
enough. But what gets me is this gaping an’ gaping an’ 
handshaking an’ behaving unfriendly an’ curious as 
though you were a black savage they’d caught on the 
beach.” 

“Did they do it to you, mother, too? When you swum 
it?” Velvet jerked her head to the sea. 

“They’d no modesty,” said Mrs. Brown shortly, and 
said no more. 

“Mother’d like to go out with a broom,” said Meredith, 
after Mrs. Brown had left the room, “an’ sweep ’em 
away.” “Mother’s a one,” said Mally, pulling a chair 
up for her feet. 

But the middle-day post consoled Edwina and gave 
them all something to do. The door bell had been rung 
incessantly by the representatives of newspapers, but 
Mrs. Brown had the big bar-arm down and stuffed a 
duster in the bell. She knew the postman’s knock, 
however, and he had had the sense to go round to the 
back. 

There was an enormous box of chocolates for Velvet 
from an unknown admirer, and almost at the same 
moment a florist’s man appeared groaning under a silver 
wicker basket loaded with pots of ferns and pink azaleas, 
and draped from head to foot in pink ribbon. This was 
from two of the Aldermen on the Worthing Corporation. 

But in the post itself there was something incredible. 
Among seven letters for Velvet, six were love letters. 



“national velvet 55 237 

and again among them two were proposals of marriage. 
Edwina and Mally read them aloud with yelps of delight. 

But the seventh, addressed to Miss V. Brown in a 
clerkly hand, was a different affair. It was written on 
paper like cardboard, its heading was neat and in fine 
scrollwork, and it explained to her that the Stewards 
at Aintree, not being satisfied with explanations given 
on March 23 rd, the matter was referred to the Stewards 
of the National Hunt Committee, and the enquiry into 
the running of The Piebald by an unqualified rider would 
be held at 1 5, Cavendish Square on the following Tuesday, 
at which meeting Miss V. Brown, Owner, was requested 
to appear. 

“Trouble’s got to come, 55 said Mr. Brown, when he 
had heard the letter too. He had by degrees, and through 
the day, night, and morning, become a father who walked 
on air. “Trouble’s got to come, Velvet, but nothing 
can take away what you done, my girl.” 

In the early afternoon the crowds grew denser. 

“Brown family totally surrounded,” read the headlines 
in the London papers. “Extra police drafted in.” This 
brought more crowds. Worthing made hurried arrange- 
ments for a special bus-line, that people might see the 
crowds and become part of them. 

Mis. Brown closed the door upon reporters And 
closed her lips. And closed her eyes and thought. To 
her the house seemed threatened. Edwina, Mally, Mere- 
dith , . . even the canaries seemed threatened. And 
Velvet most of all. The warmth, the cosiness, the privacy 
of life were blown with draught. Her house had a side 
taken out of it and she could not close it four-square. 

How long would it take to live it down? It was like 
a gale. It was like staying indoors in a gale. She let the 



23S “national velvet” 

spaniels into the living room, as one calls in a yard animal 
in a dangerous hurricane. 

“I gotta get some air,” said Velvet feverishly at three 
o’clock, and stepped out of the back door to the orchard. 

“Good day. Miss Velvet,” said a slim lady instantly. 

“Good day. Mass,” said Velvet. 

“I just wanted to ask you,” said the lady 

“I’ve got a car here,” said the lady. “Let’s sit in it.” 

Velvet hesitated. It was not in her to refuse. She 
crossed to the lane, looking back at the cactus window. 

The lady opened the door of the car and Velvet got in. 

“Now,” said the lady settling down with Velvet beside 
her, “you’re a great girl. Why you’re not as much as 
fourteenl” 

“Fourteen,” said Velvet shyly. 

“Got any boy friends?” 

“Oh ... Mi. Mi Taylor.” 

“Who’s he?” 

“Dad’s help. Father’s help. In the slaughter-house.” 

Velvet was without defences. Her innocent and mur- 
mured sentences were like poppy seeds in a corn field. 
The field went scarlet and smelt narcotic and bloomed. 
But mercifully this was in America, and Velvet never 
knew what was written and said. 

They had not got far (but far enough) with the inter- 
view when Mrs. Brown intervened. She called from 
the back doorway and Velvet, breathing relief, sprang 
from the car and went to her. The lady followed. “One 
moment . . she said, crossing the road too. 

“Nol” said Mrs. Brown sharply, and sent Velvet in 
behind her bulk. 

“Excuse me,” began the lady, “it’s for the American 
Press.” 



“national velvet” 239 

“In England -we got rights,” said Mrs. Brown, and 
shut the door in her face. 

A big Daimler pushed its way up the street at three- 
thirty. Out of it got a little man with a big head, and a 
garden of rich fur on his coat collar. He had a talk with 
Mr. Brown, whom by luck he saw going in at the street 
door. He sat in the living-room for half-an-hour and as 
he rose to go he was heard to say that he would send his 
Daimler for both of them. 

“Both who?” said Mrs. Brown, coming in when he 
had gone. 

“Gentleman from the pictures,” said father. “An 
actor. Well, an actor-manager. Come from Elstree in 
Essex. Come all the way to ask if Velvet could go an’ 
pose for them.” 

“She going?” 

“Says he’s sending fer her tomorrow.” 

“Well,” said Mrs. Brown, coming further into the room 
“had she ought?” 

Mi. Brown looked at her uneasily. “Hear that. Velvet?” 
he said to Velvet, who was sticking pictures of The Piebald 
into an album. “What do you feel about it yourself?” 

“ Think it might be fun,” said Velvet carelessly. 

‘There y’are,” said Mr. Brown irritably. “An’ I don’ 
see any harm. He wants the horse too. He’s sending 
down a horse-box . . .” 

“Wants the horse?” said Velvet looking up. 

“Says he’s made for a film, that horse.” 

“Can’t have the horse,” said Velvet swiftly, and went 
on pasting. 

“What’s that?” 

“Piebald on the films 1” said Velvetwith a light firmness 
that had never been there before. “He seems to forget.” 



240 “national velvet” 

“What’s he forget?” 

“That that's the horse that won the National.” 

“That’s why he wants him. Velvet,” said father with 
unaccustomed patience. 

“27/ go,” said Velvet, getting up. “It won’t be half 
bad for us all to go and see me doing things on the 
curtain an’ the band playing and us sitting looking. But 
The Piebald ! He doesn’t know, he wouldn’t know. He’s 
out there in that field steady and safe. He believes in me. 
I wouldn’t let him in for a thing that he couldn’t under- 
stand. He’s not like a human. He doesn’t know how 
to be funny, and he shan’t learn !” And the tears of her 
unwonted defiance streamed down her face. 

“Well!” said Mr. Brown. 

“An’what’smore,”sobbedVelvet,“an’what’smore. . 

“Well?” said Mr. Brown. 

“I’ve read about horses . . . horses that has won . . . 
an’ they write about them n-nobly’s though they were 
statues. How can you write about a horse nobly if it 
goes on the films !” 

“But what’ll they be writing about your horse more’n 
they have done?” 

“Not in the papers,” said Velvet, now fairly howling, 
“not in the p-papers. That’s nothing. Mother — mother 
— mother l-lights the fire with that! In books! Big 
books. Roll-of-Honour-books where they put down the 
winners an’ call them the Immortal Manifesto.” 

“The Immortal What?” said Mr. Brown. 

“Manifesto. N’ how can they call him the Immortal 
Piebald if he goes on the . . .” 

“More like call you the Immortal Velvet !” growled 
Mr. Brown, thoroughly taken aback. 

“Me! That’s nothing. I’m nothing. If you could see 



“National velvet” 241 

what he did for me. He burst himself for me. ISP when I 
asked him he burst himself more. ISP when I asked him 
again he — he — doubled it. He tried near to death, he 
did I’d sooner have that horse happy than go to heaven 1” 

“Behave yourself. Velvet !” said Mrs. Brown sharply. 
“Get upstairs. Merry’s in an awful mess. She’s upset 
the canary cage, water an’ sand n’ all on your bed. Get 
on up and help her.” 

As the door shut — “That child’s got something that 
you don’t value, William! That child’s more mine than 
all the rest.” 

“I valued you all right once, didn’t I, Araminty?” 

“You did, William. Or maybe was it the pop an’ 
squeak roun’ me?” 

“Now Araminty,” said Mr. Brown rising, “don’t you 
go an’ cut queer with me over this. I’m bound to say I 
don’t know whether I’m on my head or my heels some- 
times. It’s like having a gunfire of bouquets thrown 
on you all at once n’you hardly know where it’s coming 
from. It’s like them sweepstakes that we all read break 
up the home, but we won’t let all this todo break up 
this home, will we?” 

“You always was a nice chap,” said Mrs. Brown. 
“On’y I’m so buried under me fat I feel half ashamed to 
tell you so. Love don’t seem dainty on a fat woman. 
Nothin’s going to break up this home not even if you 
lose yer head, but it’ll make it easier if you keep it: On’y 
leave that child to me. She’s got more to come. You 
think the Grand National’s the end of all things, but a 
child that can do that can do more when she’s grown. 
On’y keep her level, keep her going quiet. We’ll live this 
down presently an’ you’ll see.” 

After this, the longest speech Mrs. Brown had made 



24 2 . “ NATIONAL VELVET” 

for years, she went out into the yard to look for Donald. 

She found, as she had hardly expected, that Donald 
was talking to a reporter. 

There had been a pause The reporter had not before 
tackled a mind which answered when it chose, on what 
lines it chose, or not at all. 

Donald's interest in him was flickering, subterranean, 
critical. He was as usual torn by the suspicion that there 
might be something better to do. 

“But she's a nice girl, your sister?” said the reporter 
desperately. 

“She wasn’t a nice girl larse . . . July,” said Donald. 
“She didn’ pull the plug after she’d sat down. Mother 
said she wasn’t nice.” 

“Oh well I” said the reporter almost gaily. “That's 
nothing! I've got a Gertrude that does that. She gets 
smacked for it.” 

“Older'n me?” 

“Much older than you.” 

“I like pulling the plug but I'm not allowed to.” 

The reporter's note-book remained blank. 

“Yes but ... all that's no good to me.” 

“Velvet tried to pull it,” went on Donald. “Shebrokeit. 
It wouldn't pull. Father said it was a trashy plug.” 
“Tell me something more about her.” 

“She doesn’t wash her neck sometimes.” 

“Tell me something different,” said the reporter. 
“When your sister. Velvet, was a little girl . . .” 

“I wasn't here,” said Donald quickly. 

“No, of course,” said the reporter. “You were . . .” 
“I wasn’t a star either,” said Donald, “I was some- 
where. Doing things .Where do you smack your Gertrude?” 
“Tell me, like a nice little chap . . .” (contempt 



“national velvet” 243 

surged over Donald and his lashes half veiled his eyes) 
“what sort of things does your sister play with?” 

“My sister. Velvet?” 

“Your sister Velvet.” 

Donald considered. The reporter waited. 

“See where I cut my ankle?” said Donald, holding up 
his leg. “I arsed fer the iodine myself.” 

“Yes,” said the reporter dully, “it looks a bad cut.” 

Donald, like Jacob, could do a thousand things at 
once. He could hear, feel, see, gauge, forecast, decide, 
act. He was a twinkling surface, giving off and taking in. 
He was an incredible telephone exchange run by motes 
and atoms and impulsions He had heard Velvet crying, 
he knew it was nearly dinner time, he knew there was a 
broccili stump blocking the water gutter, he knew at last 
that this fellow was as empty as a bladder, and his mind 
went white towards him and turned red and blue and 
yellow towards everything else 

“Velvet’s bin crying,”he remarked, practically to himself. 

“Why’s that?” said the reporter keenly. 

“I gotta go,” said Donald, seeing his mother coming, 
and walked away. 



\ 



Chapter XVI 


Velvet Brown, at a tender age and of a tender sex, won 
the Grand National. The mind of the public was at once 
stormed, irradiated and convulsed with a new surprise, 
fresh, keen, voracious. The fact crashed in the papers 
like a set of bells. The Mind of the public swung like 
bells too, pealing, pealing. As newspaper edition after 
edition came out the peals were set going in waves one 
after the other. The Mind could only swing and swing 
and ask to be pushed again. And the pushers flocked to 
push. The bell-ringers pealed and hauled. The music of 
news broke and poured over the land. Portions of the 
Mind began almost at once to rebel. There are people 
who prefer Wonder to arc through the sky, fall with its 
own curve, and cease on its fall. But the professional bell- 
pealers and wonder-mongers were not going to allow 
much of that. Bells must be handled again as their sound 
dies; wonder must be propped up and carry on in a 
straight line through the sky; the gaping Mind which had 
come alive like a young chicken must be stuffed with 
details and choked with news. 

The enormous and delicate and intricate machinery 
which hangs on the fringe of news was set going. Men 
hammered tin because piebald horses must prance on the 
heads of tiepins, women painted little mugs and teacups 
in Staffordshire, Velvet galloped across nearly a mile of 
white cardboard, stamped out in diamond-shapes and 
bent to hold a pound of chocolate creams. It was for the 
second impossible to be more notorious. 

244 



“national velvet” 24J 

For a time Velvet and the sisters wandered in Arcady. 
They became princesses in Eden. People gave them 
sweets, adored their horses, took their photographs. 
What was so piquant in the papers was that in a row of 
beauties “it was the plain one that did it.” This was 
somehow full of salt. 

Only when the portraits of the paper horses, sur- 
reptitiously lent by Mr. Brown, appeared below a 
picture of the shell box in a Sunday paper did Velvet say 
slowly, “Who gave them that?” 

“What?” 

“My shell box.” 

But this blew over, and the shell box was safe again on 
the sideboard, and Velvet hardly remembered that she 
had felt little scratches on her youth. 

“Coo lummy . . .” began Edwina one day. 

“You will please ...” said Mr. Brown, “remember 
that you are now in the public eye.” 

“It’s Velvet’s public eye,” said Edwina rather rudely. 
She was getting out of hand. But except for Edwina’s 
rudeness, and that was always latent in the poor, up- 
growing, beautiful child, and except for Mrs. Brown’s 
not unusual silence, and for little plumes of unhelpful 
vanity in Mr. Brown, there was no real deterioration in 
the Brown household. 

Mally and Meredith adored the fuss and the sweets and 
the visits from newspapers, and the marvel of the cinemas, 
and took delight in spotting “Velvet Novelties;” that 
piebald horse which now definitely galloped on the head 
of a tie-pin at Woolworth’s, and postcards with Velvet 
crouching in a black shirt tearing past a winning post. 

“Let’s collect them!” said Mally. And they began to 
make a collection. 



246 "national velvet” 

When Velvet saw her face for the first time on the 
cinema she felt a little strange. It was an enlargement 
face, done thin on the canvas in black and white. It 
seemed like her. She could not say it wasn’t. 

"I look like that,” she thought. And took it for 
granted that she did. 

The same face, transplanted on to postcards, became 
almost a code-sign. She could not have said what she felt 
but it was queer. However, she shook it off. "If you 
want something for your collection,” said Edwina one 
day, "there’s a brown silk in the window at Tinkler’s 
called ‘Velvet Brown.’ ” 

"Tinkler’s?” 

"In Worthing.” 

* Is it expensive? Could we get a yard?” 

“Ask them to give you a sample bit with the label 
pinned to it.” 

"Will they?” 

"Get Velvet to ask them.” 

"Oh yes, of course.” 

That was one of Velvet’s very little burdens. The 
sisters always pushed her forward to ask for anything 
they wanted. Nobody refused Velvet anything. She 
became aware of this and grew delicate and obstinate. 

When she went out she felt an insistent desire on the 
part of other people to get in touch with her. And once 
in touch it was quite literal — they touched her. They 
shook or held her hand, since the hand is not private but 
only the body. 

They came with a rush, with eagerness, as though 
they could get virtue, as though they could draw meat 
and drink. And when the "touching” was over and the 
child’s hand had been shaken they hovered a second with 



NATIONAL VELVET 




M 


2 47 


baffled hunger, and murmuring “It was fine/’ retired. It 
crossed Velvet’s mind occasionally to think they wanted 
something more of her. 

Mally kept the “collection” with energy. It was in a 
box in the bedroom and was beginning to look like a 
ragbag. There was a powder-puff called “The Velvet,” 
in gold letters on printed voile, and a mechanical piebald 
horse that wound up and hopped across the floor. There 
was a cartoon in one of the evening papers of Velvet 
coming over Becher’s sitting between the wings of 
Pegasus, and all the other horses looking scared. It was 
called "The Unseen Adversary.’ There were marvellous 
love letters from strangers, and boys at school, and 
workmen. One of the best began “Divine Equestrian” 
— but they all got very crumpled up and difficult to find. 


* * * * 


There may be wonder in money, but dear God there is 
money in wonder. And nothing is so cheap as a news- 
paper, where, when true news is truly breaking it starts 
up under the feet like a hare on the downs, and prince and 
poor man come in on the equal and swing along for their 
pennies while the news runs. And now the news was 
running hot and strong and pouring from it as it ran the 
true authentic scent. No basket hare this, let out and 
egged on to trot tamely by its keeper, and while Velvet 
lasted there was no need to bring carted news to the 
Meet. 

While the day approached for the sitting of the 
National Hunt Committee, the whole world was made to 
believe it was waiting for details. 

“Coo lummy . said Velvet, late on Monday night. 
And Mr. Brown found this excusable. 



NATIONAL VELVET 


99 


248 


“Can’t eat you,” said Mrs. Brown, and glanced at Mi. 
It was Mi they could eat, she felt. 

“We’ll get away an’ up to London early,” said Mi. 
“We don’ want to be messed up with hand-shaking to- 
morrow.” 



# 



# 


Chapter XVII 


In an upper room in 15, Cavendish Square, round a 
Board Table, the Board had assembled. It was a dis- 
tinguished company, mainly of robust and kindly men. 
They had as their spokesman, Messrs. Weatherby’s 
lawyer, Mr. Simkin, and as their Chairman, Lord 
Tunmarsh. The others were Colonel c Ruby’ Allbrow, a 
man with an extraordinarily scarlet forehead, which 
turned his name into a better joke than it already was, 
Mits Schreiber, who had ridden in the National three 
times. Lord Henry Vile, Mr. Little (a descendant of 
Captain Joseph Lockhart Little), and Mr. Thomas, who 
was no descendant of “Mr. Thomas” (since the famous 
bearer rode under a pseudonym) but liked to think he was, 
Mr. Seckam, Mr. Coleman, Sir Harry Hall, and others. 
The Clerk, Cotton, was in attendance. 

“Sickening, this Velvet uproar,” said Mr. Little, as 
they met. 

“I’ve read none of it,” said the Chairman, taking his 
seat, “or as little as I could help. I’m in a position to 
judge the case on its merit. I only read The Times” 

“What about the evening papers?” 

“The evening papers,” said Lord Tunmarsh, “are for 
the servants’ hall. Is the girl here?” 

“She’s downstairs, waiting.” 

“Very well, Mr. Simkin ! Will you tell us our position? 
Is it a case for prosecution? Is it a case coming under 
our own laws, how we stand in fact?” 

Mr. Simkin delivered a small oration on the laws of 

249 



250 “national velvet” 

impersonation, standing as a black silhouette against 
the windows facing on Cavendish Square. He sat down. 
“It’s beyond my imagination” he finished — “that is why 
I find it so difficult to give you, gentlemen, a crisp 
ruling — it’s beyond my imagination to suppose that a 
female should have done such a thing. Should have so 
deceived US.” 

“But a female has done it, you ass 1” (muttered Mits 
Schreiber). “Very much done it.” 

Simkin rose and went to a row of yellow calf volumes 
on the shelf. 

He took down one. Over clapped the pages, flying 
under his dusty thumb. His long upper lip closed over 
his teeth. 

“Attempting to defraud,” he muttered. He looked 
sharply over his shoulder. “It’s understood that we 

judge the case entirely ” There was an irritable and 

suspicious note in his voice. 

The Chairman looked up sharply. “You’re not 
referring to the newspaper hurly-burly, I hope, are you 
Mr. Simkin?” 

“No, well^ I hardly imagined, Mr. Chairman, no. 
And this is a case of — (if I’m not mistaken) of fraud. I 
have it here. ‘Attempting to obtain money under’ . . . 
‘Obtaining money under’ . . . no, she hasn’t ‘obtained.’ 
Attempting to obtain. That’s it. Attempting to obtain. 
It’s very clear.” He looked up. “We can prosecute.” 

“Legal, is it?” 

Lord Tunmarsh looked uncomfortable. “Let’s see the 
girl first. She’s waiting?” 

“Downstairs.” 

“Let’s see her,” said Colonel ‘Ruby’ Allbrow. “Have 
her up. After all it was a good show. A first class show 



NATIONAL VELVET 




2JI 


a 


she put up. What’s her age?” 

“Her age,” broke in Mr. Simkin, looking at the 
Chairman, “is said to be fourteen. This I should say was a 
romantic understatement on the part of the Press. Might 
I say, Mr. Chairman, before the . . . young woman 
. . . comes into the room that I think that it would be a 
pity if any note of admiration be acknowledged during 
the interview. If indeed any is felt.” 

The Chairman nodded. “I think, Mr. Simkin, you can 
leave that to me. No admiration can be felt for what is 
practically a criminal proceeding. Involving forgery 
very probably. We’ll have to look into that question of 
the faked Clearance.” 

Mits Schreiber addressed the Chairman. 

“But if she’s fourteen, can we prosecute a child of 
fourteen? Who put her up to do it?” 

“Apparently nobody.” 

“Impossible ! Are we prepared as to what . . .” 

“Have her up,” said the Chairman. “We shall know 
better when we see her. I’m not prepared, any more than 
Mr. Simkin is, to take it from her that she is fourteen. 
We have been loaded with more or less inaccurate (I 
daresay) descriptions of this young woman morning after 
morning. 1 need hardly say that — Not that we’ve any of 
us read ’em all, but ” 

“Every bally word, Mr. Chairman!” broke in Mlts 
Schreiber. “I’m a Velvet fan.” 

Lord Tunmarsh did not smile. 

“Well keep it to yourself, Mits. This is a meeting of 
the National Hunt Committee, and for myself I feel that 
we have been extremely offended by a piece of vulgarity. 
Mr. Simkin feels the same on behalf of Messrs. Weathcr- 
by. Please ask her to come up.” 



252 


NATIONAL VELVET 


99 


ce 


“Call her up, Cotton/’ 

Velvet was shown up to the Committee Room of the 
National Hunt Committee. 

The dusty stairs were dark. The door opened. The 
room was light. 

All the men sitting round the table rose. Lord Tun- 
marsh drew a chair out for her. Velvet sank, sat on the 
edge, folded her hands. Fourteen men saw a feather- 
weight plain child in a red jersey, dark blue wool skirt, 
blue wool coat with brass buttons and childish brown 
shoes with stubb toes. They drew a breath. 

“Good afternoon,” said Lord Tunmarsh at last. 
“You are Miss Velvet Brown?” 

“Yes,” Velvet nodded gently. (Oh -God, don’t let 
me be sick . . .) 

“I really . .” said Lord Tunmarsh, after a pause, but 

stopped himself. 

“Well, was it you all right riding that Piebald? It was 
you, wasn’t it. Miss Brown?” broke in Colonel ‘Ruby’ 
Allbrow on the silence. 

“‘Me.” 

“What put it into your head, girl, to do a frivolous 
thing like that?” 

Velvet slowly spread out her thin hands and counted 
the fan of muscles. She breathed something about the 
horse. 

“What’s that?” 

“I knew the horse could do it,” she said again. 

“But why you riding? What d’you want to ride him 
yourself ? Why not get a professional?” 

“He ...” 

“Yes?” said Lord Tunmarsh leaning a little towards 
her. 



“national velvet” 253 

“He goes very well for me.” 

There was a pause. 

Like an explosion “He DID do that !” from a red- 
faced gentleman in checks. 

“I think we shall have” said Lord Tunmarsh, “to ask 
Mr. Simkin to explain to her . . . just what . . . what 
we feel about the matter.” 

Mr. Simkin rose with alacrity. Rustled his papers. 
Blew out and drew down his upper lip. 

Velvet looked up at him with her docile look. The 
fine bone round her white temple was blue with shadow, 
her newly-cropped pale, hair hung close and uneven 
round her ears, she raised her head, and watched him with 
mild, intelligent eyes. Her lips parted slowly over the 
gold band and white teeth. Lord Tunmarsh whispered 
to his neighbour “hard to believe”. and the neighbour 
whispered and shook his head. 

Mr. Simkin read his clause from the yellow volume, 
under the heading, “Attempting to obtain money under 
false pretences.” 

“You being a female,” said Mr. Simkin . . . “and 
not an accredited male rider . . . come under this 
heading. It was a ... for the time being . . . success- 
ful deception. Upon . . . ah . . . US. Upqn Messrs. 
Weatherby (and the Committee of the National Hunt). 
It was done to obtain a prize of . . .” 

“No, no, it wasn’t !” said Velvet, 

“Eh . . . what . . . why not? You stood to get the 
prize?” 

“Yes, sir. Yes, I did. But it wasn’t done for that 
reason. It was done because . . .” 

“And why was it done? We should like to know that?” 

“Because,” said Velvet looking out of the window 



NATIONAL VELVET 


93 


254 


<C 


into the chimney pots of Cavendish Square, “the horse 
jumps lovely and I wanted him to be famous. I didn’t 
think of the money when I planned it all.” 

“Ah, and now we come to that!” said Mr. Simkin. 
“You say you planned it all. ‘That, Miss Brown is hard 
to believe. You are, I understand, a child. You have 
obtained a false certificate from my . . . er . . . people. 
From US. From Messrs. Weatherby. You posted an 
Esthonian Clearance to us and in exchange we forwarded 
to you the usual Licence. It was a monstrous imposture. 
How was it done?” 

Velvet looked at him, her eyes full of light. 

“There was so much to be done,” she said at length. 

“You mean that I am choosing only one of the grave 
impostures which you and your friends have . . . er 
. . . practised. It is precisely the name of those friends 
which we wish to have laid before us. This is . . . Miss 
Brown ... a very - SERIOUS OFFENCE. A grave 
deceit has been practised not on . . . upon US . . . 
but upon the Public. The money of the Public is in our 
trusteeship. We guarantee to the Public that this great 
and famous race , . . into which you have entered so 
lightly, so frivolously, so mockingly, is a race which is 
run in such a way that they can put their money on it . . . 
er . . . safely.” 

“ ‘SafelyY a bit strong, Simkin,” said Lord Tunmarsh. 

“ ‘Safely,’ m’lord,” said Simkin with obstinate pride. 
“Weatheiby’s prides themselves that they make racing 
safe up to the limits of the usual chances.” 

Lord Tunmarsh bit a piece of nail off his thumb. Mits 
Schreiber laughed. 

“How old are you?” sajd Lord Tunmarsh suddenly. 

“Fourteen, sir. Fifteen next month.” This no longer 



NATIONAL VELVET 


99 


*55 


« 


seemed doubtful. Mr. Simkin resumed. 

“Who has helped you in this?” he said startlingly to 
Velvet. “We want the names of your friends I” 

“Mother knew. At the end/’ said Velvet. 

“Your mother knew. That is important. Your mother 
is Mrs. Brown.” 

“My mother was Araminty Potter. She swam the 
Channel once.” 

“Her mother was Araminty Potter 1” said Sir Harry 
Hall whistling. “Swam the Channel breast-stroke twenty 
years ago. She downstairs?” 

“No, sir.” 

“Your father’s a . . 

“Butcher, sir. A slaughterer-butcher.” 

“He knew?” 

“No, he didn’t know. Only afterwards. When I got 
my fall.” 

“So Araminty Potter married a butcher and got you?” 
said Sir Harry Hall. “And you’ve gone and swindled the 
almighty Weatherby’s and won the Grand National . . .” 

“Sir Harry,” intervened Mr. Simkin, “I don’t think 
this conduces to her understanding of the situation. 
Doesn’t help. Doesn’t help at all. If your father didn’t 
know. Miss Brown (supposing this to be exact), and only 
your mother knew, then we must look for other sup- 
porters. I should like to begin with the Esthonian 
Clearance? How was that got? And who procured it?” 

Velvet looked at them, halting. Gazed at them. The 
light filled her face and she seemed to rest and wait. It 
was not a question of deciding. She and Mi had decided 
already. Both had known that they would have to pay 
for The Piebald’s fame. In Mi’s case he was paying for 
Velvet’s. 



2}6 “national velvet” 

“Mi’s downstairs,” she said at length. “Mi will tell 
you. We knew he would have to,” 

“And Mi is . . .?” said Mr. Simkin, still standing 
against the windows in silhouette. 

“Mi is Mi Taylor. He helps my father in the slaughter- 
house,” and even to her child’s ears it seemed a rummy 
description of the glory of Mi. 

“This Mi Taylor . . .” said Mr. Simkin, and stooped 
to whisper to his neighbour. The neighbour sent a 
paper round to the Chairman. Lord Tunmarsh nodded. 

“Will you wait downstairs. Miss Brown?” he said. 
“We should like to speak to Mr. Taylor.” 

Velvet disappeared and Mi was before them. His cap 
in his hand, his hair already rising from the damp comb 
he had run through it on the stairs (having spat on the 
comb). 

“Mi Taylor,” he said, nodding. 

“Mi . . .?” said Mr. Simkin, writing. 

“Michael,” corrected Mi. 

“And you are Mr. Brown’s assistant in the business?” 

“1 landed up there,” said Mi, “to do anything. Clean 
the slaughter-house, buy sheep, help their ma and so on. 
The boy’s a handful.” 

“A boy?” 

“Just a small one. No account yet.” 

“Well now, Taylor,” said Mr. Simkin clearing his 
throat, “I don’t need to tell you that a frivolous and 
monstrous outrage has been committed. An impertinence 
and also I imagine a legally-punishable fraud.” 

“Yes, sir.” 

“This fraud has ostensibly been committed by a child, 
the young lady we have just seen. Miss Velvet Brown. 
Obviously she could neither have planned it nor carried 



NATIONAL VELVET 


« 


99 


257 


it through. Without help. Without the direction of 
another mind, Whtat part did you play in all this, Taylor? 
We have got to know and we are going to know and I 
warn you to make no trouble over speaking the truth.” 
Mr. Simkin sat down abruptly and gave the table a pencil 
tap. Everyone looked at 5vli. 

“I knew a boy,” said Mi very simply, and he paused 
and sucked the hollow beside his tooth. “This boy 
knew a boy. ... It was at Lewes races. Well it was at 
Brighton races first and then I saw the other boy at 
Lewes races . . .” 

“Their names?” said Mr. Simkin, writing. 

“No,” said Mi. “I ain’t going to give you their 
names. You kin judge fer yourself when I’ve done. 
There was a w r hole trail o’ boys. All talkin’. You know 
what they are these races. Ain’t got nothing to do. Lean 
up against each other an’ jabber. ‘More an’ more kept 
coming in. No good to give you their names, I don’t 
know ’em all. But the upshot was there was some- 
one knew a fellow coming over that had a Clearance 
from Esthonia. Going to ride a horse that come by air 
and dropped dead at Croydon. .Then he hadn’t any horse, 
see? So I met him. "Long of these fellows I’m telling 
you about. They didn’t do anything but jabber, so it’s no 
good giving you the names. All they did was to say they 
knew a fellow had a Clearance and didn’t want his 
Clearance. I oiled up the fellow an’ got his Clearance. 
Didn’t want it so I got it. He didn’t think any more 
about it. He’s a half-Russian boy’s bin riding out there 
for some Count. He’s gone back now. Never thought 
no more about it. Then I just posted in the Clearance 
and got a Licence. See?” 

“And this boy from Esthonia? Where is he now? 



258 “national velvet” 

He is, I suppose, the boy whose name is on the Licence? 
Task}?” 

“That’s him. Where’s he now? He’s in Russia, s’far 
as I know. He got orders to cut off the hoof o’ the dead 
horse an’ take it back to the Count. Fer an inkstand, I 
daresay. They make them into stands. Told me he was 
going straight to Esthonia, and then on to Russia where 
the Count’s got a winter job as a sort of a riding master 
with the Bolsheviks. Tasky and he, they go together 
most winters, so he said.” 

“Not much chance,” whispered the Chairman to 
Colonel Allbrow, “of getting at Tasky. (’Less he ever 
comes again). Looks to me as though the only culprit’s 
here, in the room.” 

“So it seems to me, Taylor,” said Mr. Simkin, “that the 
whole of this monstrous affair has been engineered by 
you and by you alone, if we are to believe you?” 

Mi chuckled. Or the shade of a chuckle brushed him. 
He flicked it away and answered, “No.” 

“No, sir,” he said. “There’s Velvet. Velvet thought 
out the thing. It come to her. It come to her like the 
horse did, out of the sky.” 

“How did the horse come to her?” asked Captain 
Little leaning forward. 

“Why she got it fer a shilling in a raffle in the village ! 
There were yards about it in the Express 1” said Mits. 

Mr. Simkin frowned. 

“Is that so, Taylor?” he said sharply. 

“Yes, sir. You can go down to the village an’ see. 
Anybody’d tell you. The horse belonged to Farmer Ede 
an’ it made a filthy nuisance of itself, getting over walls 
and tearing down the village street. Nearly killed a child 
and nearly had a pushcart over twice. Ede couldn’t do 



“national velvet” 259 

anything with it. He stuck it up for a raffle at the village 
fair in the summer. Didn’t do badly: got nine pounds six 
shillings. Velvet took a ticket and won it. Then things 
went on an’ on and she got moony about the horse, 
religious. She’s a queer child. An’ one day . . . when 
1 see it jump a five foot wall by itself an’ make away ... I 
said . . . just kind of careless . . . just said . . 
(Mi waved his hand) “ 'Make a Grand National jumper, 
that would!’ Then Velvet never said anything but she 
never let up on that. She just went on.” 

“It seems not possible . . said Lord Tunmarsh. 
“I never heard such a tale I” 

“It’s no tale,” said Mi earnestly. “It’s just Velvet. 
I know what’s in her blood because my old father . . 
he paused. 

“Your father?” said Mr. Simkin drily. He did not like 
the eager, little-boys’ interest the Committee tvas taking 
in the tale. 

“My father was old Dan Taylor,” said Mi, “an’ he 
was a Channel trainer. He trained Araminty (Velvet’s 
motKer) to swim the Channel. Arf she swum it. Against 
the tide in a terrible dirty morning in a storm . . .” 

“I remember l” said Sir Harry Hall. “It was a bigger 
thing than anything that’s bin done since. It was done 
breast stroke. It seemed incredible.” 

“Well then, that’s her mother. It’s in her blood. 
If you’d see her mother now you’d never believe it. 
Great old woman she is, all muscled up an’ tight. An’ 
silent. An’ plucky’s fire still. The father, he’s not added 
nothing. It’s the mare that’s done it. An’ Velvet, fer all 
she’s such a sickly bit, she’s like her. She’ll sit on a horse 
like a shadow and breathe her soul into it. An’ her 
hands. . . . She’s got little hands like piano wires. I 



z 6 o “national velvet 9 ' 

never seen such a creature on a horse." 

“What are you by trade, Taylor? A professional 
rider?" 

“I can’t ride," said Mi slowly. 

Sensation in the room. 

“You can’t ride, Taylor?" said the Chairman, after a 
pause. 

“Never bin on a horse," said Mi, and it seemed to 
come home to him. He looked out of the window at the 
chimney pots. 

“What’s your history, then?" 

“I couldn’t swim," said Mi. “An’my old man carried 
on terrible. I went inland. I couldn’t bear the sea. I 
wouldn’t stick the sea down there at the coast now if it 
wasn’t for Velvet. I went up North and I did this an’ that. 
Got in with this lot an’ got in with that lot. I was all 
round the race-courses and the livery stables. Doesn’t 
take me much to live. I walked from here an’ there an’ 
landed up at Lewes at the races an’ did a job fer Mr. 
Brown. Velvet’s father. He asked me to help fer a day 
with some sheep in the slaughter-house and then 1 saw 
that Mrs. Brown was my old man’s Araminty. So I 
stayed." 

“Well, gentlemen," said Mr. Simkin, looking more 
sour than ever, “We’ve heard the history of how it was 
done, and on the face of it, and for the time being it seems 
as though this deception might have been carried through 
in this way and by this one man. I say ‘might.’ We 
shall have to verify. It remains now of course to decide 
on our course of action. The man can be proceeded 
against legally, I should suppose, for attempting to 
obtain money under false pretences. There is no doubt 
in my mind that had this fall of the rider’s not 



“national velvet” 261 

taken place and had the prize money of £7,560 (not to 
speak of a Cup worth two hundred pounds) been awarded, 
as it would have been if no objection had been lodged, 
then this man Taylor stood to gain, either the whole sum 
(the child being obviously under his influence) or in the 
case of the family being in the plan then no doubt the 
money would have been divided. It is not there . . 

“Here!” said Mi. “What are you getting at!” 

“ ... it is not therefore . . .” 

“I’m no thief!” said Mi. “The moneyed a bin Velvet’s. 
She’s the Owner, isn’t she? I did no more’n believe in her 
an’ talk to her an’ get her the Clearance. She’s the little 
wonder ’at’s done it all. It would a bin her money an’ I’d 
a’ seen that she kep’ it. Her mother knew about it. She’s 
no soft chicken. As for the money. . . . Why, we were 
so busy pulling it off we hadn’t begun to think about 
what Velvet would do with the money. It was the horse 
she was thinking of. Tutting the horse in history’ she 
called it. She’d got that out of somewhere an’ she kept 
thinking it and saying it too, sometimes. She’d think it at 
her dinner, and at her tea. You could see her, with her 
eyes shining and her stomach heaving too, pretty often. 
She’s got a terrible stomach, and when she gets excited 
she’s an awful vomiter. Me the money. What’s the use of 
seven thousand pounds to me?” 

“Seven thousand pounds, Taylor, is always useful.” 

“I shouldn’t know what to do with it? What’d I do? 
I don’t want to live any better’n I live. It suits me. I 
don’ want to be cluttered up. I wouldn’t know the first 
thing what to do with seven thousand pounds. It would 
give me the itch. Maybe I’d bury it.” 

“The whole story,” intervened Lord Tunmarsh, “is so 
strange that I think we should like to discuss it alone. 



z6z “national velvet 5 ' 

Will you wait downstairs, Taylor? There seems to be a 
commotion outside, Allbrow. 55 The Chairman turned 
towards the window. “Is it a fire? 55 

Mr. Simkin looked outside into the Square. 

“Crowds of people, 55 he said. “Thick on the pave- 
ment. 55 

The door was knocked upon and hurriedly opened. 
A clerk came swiftly in and looked enquiringly at Mr. 
Simkin. Mr. Simkin pointed to the Chairman. The clerk 
whispered. 

“Good God! 55 said Lord Tunmarsh. “Open the 
window, Simkin. 55 

Mr. Simkin struggled with the dusty catch. Mr. 
Seckham helped him and the ancient window flew up. 
A roar flooded in on the air. The Committee listened. 

“They want the child, 55 said the Chairman. “Taylor, 
go down and look after her. Bolt the doors, Simkin! 
Get down and see everything’s shut. What’s your back 
way out? 55 

“The bar’s down across the street door, m’lord, 55 said 
the clerk. “But they’re all up over the window sills. 
They seem to think Miss Brown is getting . . . 55 
“Getting what?” 

“Two men, m’lord, shouted through the doorway as 
I was shutting it, ‘You tick her o£ an 5 we’ll cut your 
livers out! 5 m’lord.” 

“ ‘Ticking her off, 5 they think! Well, so we are. 
Come on, young Mits! You get her out the back way! 55 

“The crowd’s gone round there like water flowing, 
m’lord. 55 

“I suppose there’s a roof exit? 55 said the Chairman 
looking at the ceiling. “These old massive roofs. . . . 
Where’s your fire exit? Here she is?” 



NATIONAL VELVET 


u 


263 


“1 brought her up,” said Mi. “Such a din and faces at 
the windows. You better up here, an’t you, Velvet?” 

“What do they want?” said Velvet, looking white. 

“To save you from us,” said the Chairman. “It looks 
to me as though you’re going to get a Lindbergh- Amy 
Johnson week. I suggest we adjourn the Committee and 
that Captain Schreiber takes the victim out over the 
roof. Here y’are, Mits ! Take my card as Chairman.” 

“The police are coming,” said Mr. Simkin, looking 
down. “Mounted police.” 

“Oh, let me look !” said Velvet. 

She hung out of the window and the crowd caught 
sight of her. A roar went up. 

“Now you’ve done it !” said the Chairman. 

It took the police an hour to disperse the crowd. 
Meanwhile Mits Schreiber, Velvet, Mi and a clerk 
crossed the roofs of Cavendish Square and descended by 
J. Denvers 5 “Cotton House.” They knocked at the glass 
window of the fire escape and were let in by a typist. 

“Fire down the Square 1” said the typist. 

“Yes, we’re from it,” said Mits briefly. “Is this the 
way down?” 

They went down into the street by the iron staircase 
and were met by the Manager of the Cotton Works at the 
bottom. 

“Card,” said Mits Schreiber. “Thank you very much. 
Thank that girl of yours for letting us through.” 

“Fire, m’lord?” said the Manager. 

“Kind of fire,” said Mits. “There’s a taxi. Come on 
while the crowd’s busy down there.” 

They left the clerk behind and bundled into a taxi. 
Velvet and Mits sat together and Mi on the strap seat 

“Where d’you want to go?” said Mits to Mi. 



264 “national velvet ” 

“Victoria Station, sir said Mi. “But Fd like to take 
her to the pictures first.” 

“I shouldn’t,” said Mits Schreiber. “Not to-day. 
You’ll be mobbed. They’re still running the film of the 
National. But you’ll be mobbed if you put your nose 
inside. The place is simply feverish to-day.” 

“Where to?” said the taxi-man again. 

“Victoria Station,” said Mits, “and drop me off at 
Brook Street.” The taxi started. “I’ve got to get to 
Scotland to-night.” 

“What’ll you all do to us?” said Velvet timidly. 

“Drop the whole thing of course,” said Mits absently. 
“But you won’t get your money or your cup, you 
know.” 

“That bay’ll get it,” said Velvet. “He was a good 
bay.” 

“I’m not sure you won’t be officially warned off, too. 
No Newmarket Plate for you now.” 

“Oh . . . THAT . . .’’said Velvet. 

“Yes, I forgot. It’s not much after winning the 
Grand National. What are you going to do now?” 

“Oh, jes’ go home,” said Velvet. “1 expect I’ll go out 
an’ have a look at the horse to-night.” 

“Look here . . .” said Mits Schreiber earnestly. 
“We’re getting to Brook Street. I’ve bin all over the 
world with horses an’ I want to say this. You try to keep 
life just the same for you from now on. The public’s 
been after you, but they’re flogged tired, and they’ll drop 
it soon. There’ll be a tale about our flight to-morrow in 
the Press, and that clerk Cotton’ll go an’ give away what 
he dare. You’ve been having a queer kind of hot air 
puffing round you. You’ve bin blown up like a pink pig 
in the air fit to burst, and maybe now they’ll let you die 



“national velvet” 265 

away with a squeak like a pink pig does. Don’t let me 
find you one day with a hard face an’ a dirty bit of 
cigarette and nerves all gone to blazes, looking for this 
hot air again! It’s bad stuff. Mi — what’s yer name, 
look after her! Here I am. Stop man, stop! Blast! he’s 
over-shot the house. I bin some funny crowds an’ I 
know! That child’s bin written across the sky like 
somebody’s pills. You see she gets over itl Goodbye 
both of you. Off you go. Victoria Station, Brighton 
line.” 

“Oh, isn’t he nice 1” said Velvet. “So they’re going 
to let us off! Aren’t they sweet. Mi? I say. Mi, have 
you got money for the taxi?” 

“No, I haven’t,” said Mi. “I got the tickets an’ a 
shilling. I knew I hadn’t.” 

“It’s two and nine,” said Velvet leaning forward. 
“Here’s the station, too.” 

The taxi drew up and Mi opened the door and got out. 
As Velvet stood in the door there was a soft: fluttering 
noise, like veiled pistols being shot into blankets. Velvet 
was snapped and snapped again from every angle. The 
black hoods of the cameras were turned on her in a set 
circle. She saw hooded men kneeling, squatting, stand- 
ing. Mi clutched Velvet by the arm and swung her 
towards the taximan. “I’m short,” he said. “Ain’t got it 
Percy. Give you a shilling an’ . . 

“It’s all right. I can lend it to you,” said a nice- 
looking boy in a blue suit. 

(“Gentleman 1” thought Mi.) 

“Here y’are taxi,” said the boy. “Look here, Miss 
Brown, I’ve got a car here. I’ll drive you . . . both . . . 
down to Brighton. Drive you home, see? Sports 
Bentley.” 



266 “national velvet” 

“You the Press?” said Mi shortly. 

“You come in my car and see,” said the boy. “I won’t 
publish a thing you don’t . . .” 

“Come on, Velvet,” said Mi. “Run for it !” 

It was too late. They couldn’t run in a heavy sea. 
The crowd pressed in from behind to see what was 
happening. “What’s a matter? Accident? No, that girl 
that won the National. They’re photographing her. 
Where. What? National Velvet!” 

“National Velvet!” shouted the crowd as Mi and 
Velvet pressed slowly forward. 

“Won’t you let me pass!” said Velvet in a small voice. 
She had her foot trodden on. Several shook her hands. 
Left hand, right hand. She lost her purse. 

“No fun about this,” muttered Mi. “This is awful.” 

My purse has dropped. Now I’ve no ticket,” she 
called to Mi. 

“Leave it. Don’t stoop down. You’ll be trodden 
on,” said Mi, getting his arm round her. 

They surged past the fruit shop and the telephone 
boxes and a door opened in the great ticket office and a 
man swept them inside. Velvet dropped on to a chair 
panting. 

Half an hour later the police got them into their train. 
An hour later the red Buicks were tearing up the Em- 
bankment from Carmelite Street . . . “National Velvet 
at Victoria Station.” 

“National Velvet had up before the Hunt Committee” 
“Great Crowds in Cavendish Square. Flight with Lord 
Tunmarsh over the roofs.” (This was an error, owing to 
the card.) 

The fever about her raged until the findings of the 



“ NATIONAL VELVET” 267 

National Hunt Committee came out in the evening papers. 
They had decided to drop the whole thing. 

Again the news machinery was set in motion. Cleared 
lines gulped that which sped along them. But by the 
morning the story was dead. The public had been over- 
whipped. It could stand no more. Dead news like dead 
love has no phoenix in its ashes. 

* * * * 

“Velvet Brown / 5 said the man in New York, whipping 
out his orders down the tubes. “Cut her out. Gone 
limp. That Jane rates a couple of sticks . 55 

* * * * 

Chrysanthemums, roses in winter, glaced sweets, love 
letters, interviews, satin pillow-dolls, — the house had 
flowed with gifts, Edwina, Mally and Merry had eaten 
themselves sick, but Velvet, who did not care for flowers, 
could not stomach many sweets, did not read the love 
letters, never played with dolls, remained with her real 
desires sharp and intact, the ascending spirit with which 
she was threaded unquenched by surfeit. 

While the glory had sedged and seethed about her she 
had been aware that as she moved so had the public 
rippled. That she had been like a boat that made a wake, 
that waves on either side had clapped and sparkled. 

But no one had learnt anything about her. No one had 
formed the slightest picture of her, and she had gathered 
an impression of isolation as she moved, was touched, 
hemmed in. Her thin face on the sheet of the cinema 
was not more strange than her portrait had been in the 
minds of those who had surrounded her. Her name, 
which had blazed in the sky, now hung there in a quiet 



268 “national velvet” 

corner with the letters unlit. The arch at the opening of 
the street first withered, then blew down. The village 
took her back. If people called her “National Velvet” it 
was in fun and affection, and like a dig in the ribs. It 
meant “What next, you little blighter! Get on with your 
growing.” 

Mrs. Brown found an old trunk for the chocolate 
boxes and the flower ribbons and Mally’s collection. It 
was April. The gymkhana summer was all before 
them. 

Thus Velvet was not fifteen when the thing left her and 
passed on, the alienating substance, the glory-wine. She 
was like a child who is offered wine too young and does 
not really drink. She put her lips to the goblet while 
thinking of other things. She got off. She glanced the 
most acute and heady danger and got off. The Press 
blew, the public stared, hands flew out like a million little 
fishes after bread. Velvet had shone, a wonder, a glory, a 
miracle child. 

And now, finished with that puzzling mixture of insane 
intimacy and isolation which is notoriety Velvet was able 
to get on quietly to her next adventures. For obviously 
she was a person to whom things happened, since in a 
year she had become an heiress, got a horse for a shilling, 
and won the Grand National. 




THE HAPPY FOREIGNER 

Published by William Heinemann Ltd. in The Windmill Library at 3 a 6 d. 


KATHARINE [MANSFIELD 
In the A.tbenaum, 16th July, 1920. 

“If Miss Bagnold had chosen that her heroine should lead the most 
sheltered and protected life that is left for a youne woman to endure, we 
are confident that there would have blossomed within its narrow 
boundaries flowers as rich and as delicate as those which Fannv gathered 
on the strange roads of France For she understands how it is vain to 
seek adventure unless there is the capacity for adventure within us — and 
if that is there, mav it not be satisfied within four walls or the circle of 
lamplight? This generation assures us it may. Beauty looks in at the 
window Experience knocks at the door. Why should one wander? 
Nevertheless, though the spirit of adventure may sing, mav lament, exult, 
within our bosom’s cage, there are moments when the old longing comes 
over us to fare forth, to put ourselves to the test, to lose ourselves in 
other countries, other lives, to give what we have in exchange for what 
we want, and thus to acquire strange unfamiliar treasure. But these 
moments pass very quickly. Few are brave enough to recognize them. 
They pass, and the wonderful light quivers on the walls, is like a pool of 
silver in the lampshme, and Beauty mounts guard ar the window and 
Experience stands with a drawn sword at the door But this sad ending 
cannot happen to Miss Bagnold, for The Happy Foreigner exists for a 
proof of how she ventured, and to tell how great was her reward. Here 
is the plot. 

“Fanny, an English girl, goes to France at the end of the war, and 
drives a car for the French Army. She falls in love, but it comes to 
nothing, and the end might be the beginning That is all. Who Fannv is, 
what her life has been up till the moment she is discovered for ns ‘stretched 
upon the table of the Y W C.A.’ in Paris, on her way to Bar-le-Duc, we 
are not told. She remains from first to last an unknown young woman, 
secret, folded within herself, a ‘happy foreigner.’ She is almost without 
fear; nothing can overwhelm her or cast her down, because it is her 
nature, and unchangeable, to find in all things a grain of living beauty. 
We have the feeling that she is, above all, unbroken. Driving in the rain, 
in the darkness, in the snow, living in a paper cubicle, with the bright 
eyes of a rat peering at her, enduring cold and vile food, being covered in 
mud from head to foot — these things happen to her, but she passes them 
by. They do not matter. They are incidents on the journey, but they are 
not more. Praise be to Miss Bagnold for giving us a new heroine, a 
pioneer, who sees, feels, thinks, bears, and yet is herself full of the sap of 
life. The Happy Foreigner ends upon a note of happiness: 

“ To-morrow l shall be gone. The apple blossom is spread to large wax 
flowers , and the flowers will {all and never breed apples. They* will sweep this 
room , and Philippe* s mother will come and sit in it and make it sad. 5 0 many 
things happen in the evening. So many unripe thoughts ripen before the fire. Turk, 
Vulgar, German — Me. Never to return . When she comes into the room the 



apple-flowers will stare at her across the desert of my absence , and wonder who 
she is? I wonder if I can teach her anything. Will she keep the grill on the wood 
fire? And the blue birds flying on the bed? It is like going out of life — tenderly 
leaving one's little arrangements to the next comer. . . . 

“And drawing her chair up to the table , she lit the lamp and sat down to write 
her letter . 93 


EDWARD GARNETT 
In the Daily Herald , July 21st, 1920. 

« . , . a page of history broad in sweep, rich in detail, exquisitely 
delicate in atmospheric effects, that Miss Bagnold transcribes for us and 
for posterity. Her feminine response to her surroundings is seconded 
by a rare skill in literary perspective. As a driver she registers the infinite, 
fleeting, human drama of the roads, where the embers of the war 
smouldered in devastated regions and scarred battlefields. She touches in 
cleverly the stolidity of the English, the homesickness of the raw American 
troops, the steely politeness of the impatient French, the incongruities, 
the encounters, the romance, the adventures, the daily vicissitudes and 
incidental humours of the war’s dissolving spectacle. . . . 

“ . . . And the episode of passing love, told with that delicate detach- 
ment that is in itself a feat, deepens the chiaroscuro of the general picture, 
and colours it faintly with the message of disillusionment after victory. 
Julien returns at last, a preoccupied man, but Fanny slips away in silence 
from his arms, not outstretched indeed to detain her. So ends a narrative 
that in the freshness and subtlety of its descriptions is one of the most 
notable in war literature.’ * 


REBECCA WEST 
In The Nen> Statesman , July 10th, 1920. 

“Nearly every good novel which has ever been written by a woman 
bears a stamp which proclaims beyond all doubt that it is the work of a 
woman. It would be hard to say exactly what that stamp is, though it 
certainly depends in part on the presence of a turbulent romanticism, 
a gusto in creating exciting events just because they are exciting events, 
which is natural enough in a sex that is too often condemned to spend its 
life waiting for things which do not happen and a belief that happiness 
in love satisfies all the soul’s demands on the universe. But there is 
practically no good novel which bears the stamp of having been written 
by a lady. One is using that word in the sense of a woman whose circum- 
stances enable her to cultivate her personality as a singer cultivates 
her voice; to live with the aim of being the delicate and refreshing 
antithesis to the coarse and fatiguing world where men must work; 
to serve civilisation by being exquisite and encourage the exquisite 
things of life by appreciating them. There is much to be said for the 
lady. The only thing against her profession is that since there can be 



no entrance examination, too many people take up this career who are 
quite unfitted for it; but this is a disadvantage which attaches to all the arts. 
And the lady labours under the special disadvantage of those who 
practise an art which requires expensive material. Just as in the artistic 
quarter of every city in Europe sculptors are noted for financial re- 
calcitrance, because they object to paying for bread because they would 
so much rather save money to buy bronxe and marble, so the lady, with 
her enormous demands upon the luxury trades, is always associated with 
economic injustice. But it shows dishonesty, not less shameful because it 
is Puritan, to deny that when a lady succeeds in her vocation she is 
worthy to be ranked as an artist. 

“Now here at last in Miss Enid Bagnold’s The Happy Foreigner we 
have a good^ book that is written from the point of view of the lady. 
The author is inspired by the lady’s interpretation of the relationship 
between men and women; she possesses the lady’s sense of being a 
missionary in the interests of grace, and she has the lady’s educated 
faculty for appreciation. It is extraordinary to see how this attitude can 
be practised in the most incongruous circumstances. For this is the story 
of an Englishwoman who goes out as a motor-driver with the French 
Army after the Armistice; who lives for long in a black hut at Bar-le-Duc, 
where ‘she had run down to the bottom of living, lain on that hard floor 
where the poor lie , known what it was to live as the poor live , in a bole , without 
generosity , beauty , or privacy — in a bole, dirty and cold, plain and coarse ’; who, 
when she goes to the easier conditions of Met2 and falls in love, may contrive 
no other personal decoration to mark the important event beyond a 
change into silk stockings, and is liable to be snatched from her Julien to 
drive uninteresting men day-long journeys on perilous roads among 
tottering ruins. And this point of view has made Miss Bagnold write a 
very good book. Fanny, with her sense of her own preciousness, her 
proud and modest recognition that men regard her as a treasure and that it 
is therefore her duty to be a treasure, is an interesting subject for a novel, 
as every person with a definite philosophy of life is. And in her description 
of Fanny’s settings. Miss Bagnold’s educated faculty for appreciation and 
her preference for things that are vague and secondary and not too 
closely related to any practical, purposive line of thought have made 
her give one of the finest descriptions of life in the devastated areas 
of France that has yet been written. Because she looked at things emotion- 
ally and saw that ‘the country around her was a vast tract of men sick 
with longing for the four comers of the earth,’ she has been able to 
collect incidents and stories that make the enmity between France and 
her Allies much more explicable than anything harder-minded observers 
have yet said. Because she is not afraid to write down things so appar- 
ently trivial as the conversation between the two motor-drivers coming 
for the first time into Met2: 

“I beard, I beard . . .” 

“What is it?" 

“I heard German spoken " 

ce Didyou think, then, they were all dead?" 

“No," but Fanny felt like some old scholar who hears a dead language spoken 
in a vanished town . 

She is able to convey the curious kind, indulgent spirit, full of a 
kindness such as the living might show to ghosts, that one notices in 



men who have come back from Germany and the reclaimed provinces. 
And her eye for landscape, not made glassy by any moral preoccupation, 
any sense of the necessity to feel a holy horror against the aggressors, 
has enabled her to give a uniquely vivid and impressive picture of the 
desolarion of the war-ravaged areas. 

“The story that runs through The Happy Foreigner is as distinctive, 
as it is unlike the spirit of our age, in its determined preference for dealing 
with the secondary rather than the primary, and working for grace rather 
than for intensity. It can be judged by its culmination, when Julien takes 
Fanny up the mountain side at night that she may look down on his 
ruined factories and listen to his plans for rebuilding them, while she 
stands uneasily, preoccupied by her perplexity as to how to tell him 
thar she has fallen out of love. 

“See!** H' was carried away by his resolves , shaken by excitement ', and 
pulling out bit note-book he tilted it this way and that under the starlight , but 
be could not read it \ and all the stars in that sky were no use to h>m . He struck 
a match and held the feeble flame under that heavenly magnificence , and a puff 
of wind blew it out “ But I don't need to see!" he exclaimed* and pointing into 
the night , he continued to unfold his plans , to build in the unmeaning darkness , 
vhicb , to bis eyes , was mountain valleys where new factories arose , mountain 
slopes whose sides were to be quarried for their stony ribs , rivers to move power- 
stations , railways to Paris and to Brussels. As she followed his finger her 
eyes lit upon the stars instead , and now he said , “ There , there!" pointing to 
Orion , and now (i Here, here!" lighting upon Aldebrande" 



A DIARY WITHOUT DATES 

Published by William Heinemann Ltd. in the Windmill Library. 


“REMARKABLE BOOK BY A NURSE.” 

Daily Mail \ 26th January, 1918. 

“A Diary Without Date r is one of the most moving books that the 
war has evoked Much has been written about hospital life in other 
wars and much about hospital life in this war. There is, for example, 
the episode in ‘Sevastopol* with its cry of sorrow and its appeal for 
some answer which shall solve this riddle of tortured existence. There 
is also Bourget’s ‘Sens de la Mort/ which attempts to give that answer 
in the only terms that count. 

“The art of this book seems to me greater than any of these, in that 
it is sincere and true; that it does not conceal the terrible, and yet leaves 
on the mind the impression of noble tragedy. There are passages in it 
which, by their perfection of expression, and beauty of thought, rise 
to unaccustomed levels. The true poet, we know, ‘does not moralise 
or make applications of morals,’ and so the author allows us to draw 
our own conclusions. But the motive is there in Dante’s sense — ‘sorrow 
remarries man to the Divine/ 

“The author, Enid Bagnold, V.A.D. nurse in a British war hospital, 
is at once realist and poet. Here is one episode where the father of a 
dead officer seeks from a wounded officer some last words about his son: 

“A citizen ... a baker or a brewer ; tinker , tat lor or candlestick-maker. 

“ There bad been the buying of the uniform , the visits to the camp in England^ 
the parcels to send out — always the parcels week by week . And now nothing; 
no more parcels , no more letters , silence . 

“ Only the hungry pickings from Captain Matthew 7 s tired memory and 
nervous speech . 

“I turned away with a great shrinking . 

“In a very few minutes the citizen went past my bunk door , bis hat in his 
band, his black coat buttoned, taking back to bis home and bis family the last 
facts that be might ever learn . 

“At the end uf the passage be almost collided with that stretcher which bears 
a flag 

“Of the two the stretcher mot'ed me least 77 

“Each one knows his own whom he sent forth, and nothing comes 
back but the sword and the ashes for remembrance.” So ran the lines 
of the Athenian poet with that same eternal silence at heart. This is the 
interpretation of the allusion to “the stretcher with the flag:” 

“ When a man dies they fetch him with a stretcher , fust as he came in; only 
be enters with a blanket over bim and a flag covers him as he goes out. When 
be came in he was one of a convoy , but every man who can stand rises to bis feet 
as be goes out, 

“Where is be going? 7 * 

“To the mortuary . 77 

“ Yes ... but where else ? 77 



“The catholicity of our modern Army is shown us in this picture of 
the officers* ward: 

“Again and again I realise, ‘A nation in arms/ 

“Watchmakers, jewellers, station-masters, dress-designers, travellers 
in underwear, bank clerks . . . they come here in uniforms and we 
put them into pyjamas and nurse them; and they lie in bed or hobble 
about the ward, watching us as we move, accepting each other with 
the unquestioning faith of children/* 

(Who are they all . . . these men with their different tastes?) 

Perhaps the angels feel like this as they trail about in Heaven with 
their wings flapping on their thin white legs . . . 

“Who were you, angel?’* 

“I was a beggar outside San Marco.” 

“Were you? How odd! I was an Englishman.” 

We have a curious illustration of the Smallwood episode: 

“On the whole the Sisters loathe relations. 

“The Eldest Sister said to me yesterday: ‘Shut the door, nurse; there’s 
Captain Fellow’s father. I don’t want him fussing round. A relation is 
the last straw . . . You don’t understand/ ” 

And this summation by a spectator of the sacrifice: 

“Those distant guns again to-night! 

“I can only think of death ... I tried to think just now, ‘What 
is it after all! Death comes anyway; this only hastens it/ But that won’t 
do; no philosophy helps the pain of death. It is pity, pity, pity that I 
feel, and sometimes a sort of shame that I am here to write at all. 

“There is that in death that makes the throat contract and the heart 
catch; everything is written in water.” 

But is not the truth here put by Croce? The increase of knowledge 
(which is philosophy) does not eliminate the sorrows of practical life; 
“it elevates them.” 

H. W. W. 


H. G. WELLS in The Dream (a novel from the standpoint of 2,000 
years ahead) wrote: 

“I do not think I need tell you very much of the war itself as I saw 
it. It was a strange phase in human experience and it was described 
and painted and photographed and put on record very completely . . . 

** . . . Nowadays of course nobody reads the books of the generals 
and admirals and politicians of that time, and all the official war histories 
sleep the eternal sleep in the vaults of the great libraries, but probably 
you have all read one or two such human books as Enid Bagnold’s 
Diary 'Without Dates , or Cogswell’s Ermytage and the Curate , or Barbusse’s 
Le Feu ...” 


E. BRETT YOUNG in the Liverpool Courier , January 24th, 1918: 

** » * . Then Miss Bagnold makes another unsentimental discovery* 
that pity is exhaustible. If one ceases for an instant to pity Mr. Wicks, 
who is on his back, paralysed, he becomes a bore, with his legendary 



tale of wrong done him in his promotion. Mr. Wicks being mentioned, 
I must verge many short paragraphs into one, and put down how he 
was shown the moon: 

“He reflects deeply at times. To-night, as I went quickly past him 
with my load of bath towels, his blind flapped a little, and I saw the 
moon, shaped like a horn, behind it. Dropping my towels, I pulled 
his blind back. ‘Mr. Wicks, look at the moon/ Obedient as one who 
receives an order, he reached up to his supporting handle and pulled 
his shoulders half round in bed to look with me through the pane. The 
young moon, freed from the trees, was rising over the hill. I dropped 
the blind again, and took up my towels and left him . . . When I took 
his dinner to him, he lifted his large, sandy head and said: ‘Seems a 
queer thing that if you hadn’t said ‘Look at the moon/ I might have 
bin dead without seeing her. ’ ‘But don’t you ever look out of the window?’ 
The obstinate man shook his head ...” 


THE SAILING SHIPS: POEMS 

(Published by William Heinemann) 


E. BRETT YOUNG in the Liverpool Courier, 6th February, 1919. 

“Miss Bagnold is very skilful at expressing transient moods, not 
always poetic, but observed with much sensibility. The feeling of early 
morning in ‘Getting up at six’ is admirable, and reminds one of ‘Die 
Verlassene Magdlein/ though it has not the passion of Morike’s poem. 
I can quote only two stanzas: 

“ Sleep falls down where the nightgown is thrown , 

Or clings to the vale where the round head has lain , 

But the blood and the skin and the tissue and bone 
In the tunnel of morning are walking alone. 

By the pale sheet mirror which the reflection ? 

Which the pale face , which the pale ghost? . 

In the pit of the mirror , no link no connection , 

Two strange eyes follow eyes * direction 




AIDE-de-CAMP’S LIBRARY 

Aecn. No. ns%~ 

1. Books may be retained for a period not 
exceeding fifteen days. 



