THE BLACK STALLION 






twenty-first printing 



copyright, 1941, by random house, INC. 

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 




ontents 


PAGE 


1 . HOMEWARD BOUND 3 

2 . THE STORM I4 

3. THE ISLAND 26 

4. THE WILDEST OF ALL WILD CREATURES 40 

5. RESCUE 55 

6. KING OF THE HERD 60 

7. HOME 83 

8. NAPOLEON 101 

9. ESCAPE 119 

10. THE SEARCH 132 


THE BLACK STALLION 


H. PARTNERS 

146 

12 . TRAINING BEGINS 

166 

13. NIGHT RIDE 

178 

14. CYCLONE AND SUN RAIDER 

197 

1 THE MYSTERY HORSE 

212 

16. PREPARATION 

229 

17. CHICAGO 

243 

18. THE MATCH RACE 

253 



BgcetvecI from 
HEADER’S SERVICE ' 

Presb. gca/d c? F'..,ig- Vfs^i.'ons 


aiL 


ustrations 


PAGE 


He saw a mighty black horse rear on its hind legs 7 

Alec went flying into space 19 

Alec tripped on a stone and fell to the ground 42 

High in the air they rose on their hind legs 77 

“See? What’d I tell you? They’re friends already” 108 
Cautiously he covered the distance around the pool 139 
“I wore ’em in the last race I ever rode” 147 

Once again he was wild and free 188 

“It’s the mystery horse !” 262 

They put the horseshoe of roses around his neck 271 


lx 



THE BLACK STALLION 




omewan 


oun< 


T he tramp steamer Drake plowed away 
from the coast of India and pushed its blunt 
prow into the Arabian Sea, homeward 
bound. Slowly it made its way west toward the Gulf 
of Aden. Its hold was loaded with coffee, rice, tea, 
oil seeds and jute. Black smoke poured from its one 
stack, darkening the hot cloudless sky. 

Alexander Ramsay, Jr., known to his friends back 
home in New York City as Alec, leaned over the 
rail and watched the water slide away from the sides 
of the boat. His red hair blazed redder than ever in 
the hot sun ; his tanned elbows rested heavily on the 
rail as he turned his freckled face back toward the 
fast-disappearing shore. 

It had been fun— those two months in India. He 



THE BLACK STALLION 

would miss Uncle Ralph, miss the days they had 
spent together in the jungle, even the screams of the 
panthers and the many eerie sounds of the jungle 
night. Never again would he think of a missionary’s 
work as “sissy” work. No, sir, you had to be big and 
strong, able to ride horseback for long hours through 
the tangled jungle paths. Alec glanced down proudly 
at the hard muscles in his arms. Uncle Ralph had 
taught him how to ride — the one thing in the world 
he had always wanted to do. 

But it was all over now. Rides back home would 
be few. 

His fist opened. Lovingly he surveyed the pearl 
pocketknife he held there. The inscription on it was 
in gold: To Alec on his birthday, Bombay, India. 
He remembered, too, his uncle’s words: “A knife, 
Alec, comes in handy sometimes.” 

Suddenly a large hand descended on his shoulder. 
“Well, m’boy, you’re on your way home,” a gruff 
voice said, with a decidedly English accent. 

Alec looked up into the captain’s wrinkled, wind- 
tanned face. “Hello, Captain Watson,” he answered. 
“It’s rather a long way home, though, sir. To Eng- 
land with you and then to New York on the Ma- 



HOMEWARD BOUND 


“About four weeks sailing, all in all, lad, but you 
look like a pretty good sailor.” 

“I am, sir. I wasn’t sick once all the way over and 
we had a rough crossing, too,” Alec said proudly. 

“When’d you come over, lad?” 

“In June, sir, with some friends of my father’s. 
They left me with my uncle in Bombay. You know 
my Uncle Ralph, don’t you? He came aboard with 
me and spoke to you.” 

“Yes, I know your Uncle Ralph. A fine man, too. 
. . . And now you’re going home alone?” 

“Yes, sir ! School opens next month and I have to 
be there.” 

The captain smiled and took Alec by the arm. 
“Come along,” he said. “I’ll show you how we steer 
this ship and what makes it go.” 

The captain, the sailors, everybody on boat, was 
kind to Alec, but the days passed monotonously for 
the homeward-boimd boy as the Drake steamed its 
way through the Gulf of Aden and into the Red Sea. 
The tropic sun beat down mercilessly on the heads 
of the few passengers aboard. 

The Drake near the coast of Arabia — endless 
miles of barren desert shore. But Alec’s thoughts 

: ' : 5 



THE BLACK STALLION 

were not on the scorching sand. Arabia- — ^where the 
greatest horses in the world were bred! Did other 
fellows dream of horses the way he did? To him, a 
horse was the grandest animal in the world. 

Then one day the Drake headed for a small Ara- 
bian port. As they approached the small landing, 
Alec saw a crowd of natives milling about in great 
excitement. Obviously it was not often that a boat 
stopped there. 

But, as the gangplank went down with a bang, 
Alec could see that it wasn’t the ship itself that was 
attracting all the attention. The natives were crowd- 
ing toward the center of the landing. Alec heard a 
whistle — shrill, loud, clear, unlike anything he had 
ever heard before. He saw a mighty black horse rear 
on its hind legs, its forelegs striking out into the 
air. A white scarf was tied across its eyes. The crowd 
broke and ran. 

White lather ran from the horse’s body; his mouth 
was open, his teeth bared. He was a giant of a horse, 
glistening black— too big to be pure Arabian. His 
mane was like a crest, mounting, then falling low. 
His neck was long and slender, and arched to the 
small, savagely beautiful head. The head was that of 
the wildest of all wild creatures — a stallion bom 









HOMEWARD BOUND 


wild — and it was beautiful, savage, splendid. A stal- 
lion with a wonderful physical perfection that 
matched his savage, ruthless spirit. 

Once again the Black screamed and rose on his 
hind legs. Alec could hardly believe his eyes and 
ears — a stallion, a wild stallion — ^unbroken, such as 
he had read and dreamed about ! 

Two ropes led from the halter on the horse’s head, 
and four men were attempting to pull the stallion 
toward the gangplanlc. They were going to put him 
on the ship ! Alec saw a dark-skinned man, wearing 
European dress and a high, white turban, giving di- 
rections. In his hand he held a whip. He gave his 
orders tersely in a language unknown to Alec. Sud- 
denly he walked to the rear of the horse and let the 
hard whip fall on the Black’s hind quarters. The 
stallion bolted so fast that he struck one of the na- 
tives holding the rope; down the man went and lay 
still. The Black snorted and plunged; if ever Alec 
saw hate expressed by a horse, he saw it then. They 
had him halfway up the plank. Alec wondered where 
they would put him if they ever did succeed in get- 
ting him on the boat. 

Then he was on ! Alec saw Captain Watson wav- 
ing his arms frantically, motioning and shouting for 




THE BLACK STALLION 

the men to pull the stallion toward the stern. The 
boy followed at a safe distance. Now he saw the 
makeshift stall into which they were attempting to 
get the Black — it had once been a good-sized cabin. 
The Drake had little accommodation for transport- 
ing animals ; its hold was already heavily laden with 
cargo. 

Finally they had the horse in front of the stall. 
One of the men clambered to the top of the cabin, 
reached down and pulled the scarf away from the 
stallion’s eyes. At the same time, the dark-skinned 
man again hit the horse on the hind quarters and he 
bolted inside. Alec thought the stall would never 
be strong enough to hold him. The stallion tore into 
the wood and sent it flying; thunder rolled from un- 
der his hooves; his powerful legs crashed into the 
sides of the cabin; his wild, shrill, high-pitched whis- 
tle sent shivers up and down Alec’s spine. He felt a 
deep pity steal over him, for here was a wild stal- 
lion used to the open range imprisoned in a stall in 
which he was hardly able to turn. 

Captain Watson was conversing angrily with the 
dark-skinned man; the captain had probably never 
expected to ship a cargo such as this ! Then the man 



pulled a thick wallet from inside his coat; he counted 
the bills off and handed them to the captain. Captain 
Watson looked at the bills and then at the stall ; he 
took the money, shrugged his shoulders and walked 
away. The dark-skinned man gathered the natives 
aroimd who had helped bring the stallion aboard, 
gave them bills from his wallet, and they departed 
down the gangplank. 

Soon the Drake was again under way. Alec gazed 
back at the port, watching the group gathered around 
the inert form of the native who had gone down un- 
der the Black’s mighty hooves; then he turned to the 
stall. The dark-skinned man had gone to his cabin, 
and only the excited passengers were standing around 
outside the stall. The black horse was still fighting 
madly inside. 


The days that followed were hectic ones for Alec, 
passengers and crew. He had never dreamed a horse 
could have such spirit, be so untamable. The ship re- 
sounded far into the night from the blows struck by 
those powerful legs. The outside of the stall was 
now covered with reinforcements. The dark-skinned 
man became more mysterious than ever — ^always 








11 



THE BLACK STALLION 

alone, and never talking to anyone but the captain. 

The Drake steamed through the Suez into the 
Mediterranean. 

That night Alec stole out upon deck, leaving the 
rest of the passengers playing cards. He listened 
carefully. The Black was quiet tonight. Quickly he 
walked in the direction of the stall. At first he 
couldn’t see or hear anything. Then as his eyes be- 
came accustomed to the darkness, he made out the 
pink-colored nostrils of the Black, who was sticking 
his head out of the window. 

Alec walked slowly toward him; he put one hand 
in his pocket to see if the sugar he had taken from 
the dinner table was still there. The wind was blow- 
ing against him, carrying his scent away. He was 
quite close now. The Black was looking out on the 
open sea; his ears pricked forward, his thin-skinned 
nostrils quivering, his black mane flowing like wind- 
swept flame. Alec could not take his eyes away; he 
could not believe such a perfect animal existed. 

The stallion turned and looked directly at him— - 
his black eyes blazed. Once again that piercing whis- 
tle filled the night air, and he disappeared into the 
stall. Alec took the sugar out of his pocket and left it 
on the window sill. He went to his cabin. Later when 


12 



HOMEWARD BOUND 


he returned it was gone. Every night thereafter Alec 
would steal up to the stall, leave the sugar and de- 
part; sometimes he would see the Black and other 
times he would only hear the ring of hooves against 
the floor. 



2 


Sfke storm 


T he Drake stopped at Alexandria, Bengasi, 
Tripoli, Tunis and Algiers, passed the Rock 
of Gibraltar and turned north up the coast of 
Portugal. Now they were off Cape Finisterre on the 
coast of Spain, and in a few days. Captain Watson 
told Alec, they would be in England. 

Alec wondered why the Black was being shippec 
to England — perhaps for stud, perhaps to race. The 
slanting shoulders, the deep broad chest, the power- 
ful legs, the knees not too high nor too low— these, 
his uncle had taught him, were marks of speed and 
endurance. 

That night Alec made his customary trip to the 
stall, his pockets bulging with sugar. The night was 
hot and still; heavy clouds blacked out the stars; in 



THE STORM 


the distance long streaks of lightning raced through 
the sky. The Black had his head out the window. 
Again he was looking out to sea, his nostrils quiver- 
ing more than ever. He turned, whistled as he saw 
the boy, then again faced the water. 

Alec felt elated — it was the first time that the 
stallion hadn’t drawn back into the stall at sight of 
him. He moved closer. He put the sugar in the palm 
of his hand and hesitantly held it out to the stallion. 
The Black turned and once again whistled- — softer 
this time. Alec stood his ground. Neither he nor 
anyone else had been this close to the stallion since 
he came on board. But he did not care to take the 
chance of extending his arm any nearer the bared 
teeth, the curled nostrils. Instead he placed the sugar 
on the sill. The Black looked at it, then back at the 
boy. Slowly he moved over and began to eat the 
sugar. Alec watched him for a moment, satisfied; 
then as the rain began to fall, he went back to his 
cabin. 

He was awakened with amazing suddeimess in the 
middle of the night. The Drake lurched crazily and 
he was thrown onto the floor. Outside there were 
loud rolls of thunder, and streaks of lightning made 
his cabin as light as day. 



THE black stallion 

His first storm at sea ! He pulled the light cord — 
it was dead. Then a flash of lightning again illumi- 
nated the cabin. The top of his bureau had been 
swept clear and the floor was covered with broken 
glass. Hurriedly he put on his pants, shirt and slip- 
pers and started for the door; then he stopped. Back 
he went to the bed, fell on his knees and reached 
under. He withdrew a life belt and strapped it 
around him. He hoped that he wouldn’t need it. 

He opened the door and made his way, staggering, 
to the deck. The fury of the storm drove him back 
into the passageway; he hung onto the stair rail and 
peered into the black void. He heard the shouts of 
Captain Watson and the crew faintly above the roar 
of the winds. Huge waves swept from one end of 
the Drake to the other. Hysterical passengers 
crowded into the corridor. Alec was genuinely scared 
now; never had he seen a storm like this ! 

For what seemed hours to him, the Drake plowed 
through wave after wave, trembling, careening on 
its side, yet somehow managing to stay afloat. The 
long streaks of lightning never diminished; zigzag- 
ging through the sky, their sharp cracks resounded 
on the water. 
i6 



THE STORM 


From the passageway, Alec saw one of the crew 
make his way along the deck in his direction, des- 
perately fighting to hold onto the rail. The Drake 
rolled sideways and a huge wave swept over the boat. 
When it had passed, the sailor was gone. The boy 
closed his eyes and prayed. 

The storm began to subside a little and Alec felt 
new hope. Then suddenly a bolt of fire seemed to fall 
from the heavens above them. A sharp crack and 
the boat shook. Alec was thrown flat on his face, 
stunned. Slowly he regained consciousness. He was 
lying on his stomach; his face felt hot and sticky. He 
raised his hand, and withdrew it covered with blood, 
Then he became conscious of feet stepping on him. 
The passengers, yelling and screaming, were climb- 
ing, crawling over him ! The Drake was still — its 
engines dead. 

Struggling, Alec pushed himself to his feet. 
Slowly he made his way onto the deck. His startled 
eyes took in the scene about him. The Drake, struck 
by lightning, seemed almost cut in half! They were 
sinking! Strange, with what seemed the end so near, 
he should feel so cool. They were manning the life- 
boats, and Captain Watson was there shouting di- 

17 


the black stallion 

rections. One boat was being lowered into the water. 
A large wave caught it in the side and turned it over 
— its occupants disappeared beneath the water. 

The second lifeboat was being filled and Alec 
waited his turn. But when it came, the boat had 
reached its quota. 

“Wait for the next one, lad,” Captain Watson said 
sternly. He put his arm on the boy’s shoulder. Alec 
did his best to smile. 

As they watched the second lifeboat being low- 
ered, the dark-skinned man appeared and rushed up 
to the captain, waving his arms and babbling hys- 
terically. 

“Under the bed, under the bed !” Captain Watson 
shouted at him. 

Then Alec saw the man had no life belt. Terror in ' 
his eyes, he turned away from the captain toward 
Alec. Frantically he rushed at the boy and tried to 
tear the life belt from his back. Alec struggled, but 
he was no match for the half-crazed man. Then Cap- 
tain Watson had his hands on him and threw him 
against the rail. 

Alec saw the man’s eyes turn to the lifeboat that 
was being lowered. Before the captain could stop 
him, he was climbing over the rail. He was going to 
i8 





THE STORM 


jump into the boat! Suddenly the Drake lurched. 
The man lost his balance and, screaming, fell into 
the water. He never rose to the surface. 

The dark-skinned man was drowned. Immediately 
Alec thought of the Black. What was happening to 
him? Was he still in his stall? Driven by an irresisti- 
ble impulse, Alec fought his way out of line and 
toward the stern of the boat. If the stallion was alive, 
he was going to set him free and give him his chance 
to fight for life. 

The stall was still standing. Alec heard a shrill 
whistle rise above the storm. He rushed to the door, 
lifted the heavy bar and swung it open. For a second 
the mighty hooves stopped pounding and there was 
silence. Alec backed slowly away. 

• Then he saw the Black, his head held high, his 
nostrils blown out with excitement. Suddenly h^e 
snorted and plunged straight for the rail and Alec 
Alec was paralyzed, he couldn’t move. One hand 
was on the rail, which was broken at this point, leav- 
ing nothing between him and the open water. The 
Black swerved as he came near him, and the boy 
realized that the stallion was making for the hole. 
The horse’s shoulder grazed him as he swerved, and 


21 


THE BLACK STALLION 

Alec went flying into space. He felt the water close 
over his head. 

When he came up, his first thought was of the 
ship; then he heard an explosion, and he saw the 
Drake settling deep into the water. Frantically he 
looked aroimd for a lifeboat, but there was none in 
sight. Then he saw the Black swimming not more 
than ten yards away. Something swished by him — 
a rope, and it was attached to the Black’s halter! 
The same rope that they had used to bring the stal- 
lion aboard the boat, and which they had never been 
able to get close enough to the horse to untie. With- 
out stopping to think, Alec grabbed hold of it. Then 
he was pulled through the water, out into the open 
sea. 

The waves were still large, but with the aid of his 
life belt, Alec was able to stay on top. He was too far 
gone now to give much thought to what he had done. 
He only knew that he had had his choice of remain- 
ing in the water alone or being pulled by the Black. 
If he was to die, he would rather die with the mighty 
stallion than alone. He took one last look behind and 
saw the Drake sink into the depths. 

For hours Alec battled the waves. He had tied the 
rope securely around his life belt. He could hardlj 
22 ' 



THE STORM 

hold his head up. Suddenly he felt the rope slacken. 
The Black had stopped swimming! Alec anxiously 
waited ; peering into the darkness he could just make 
out the head of the stallion. The Black’s whistle 
pierced the air! After a few miimtes, the rope be- 
came taut again. The horse had changed his direction. 
Another hour passed, then the storm diminished to 
high rolling swells. The first streaks of dawn ap- 
• peared on the horizon. 

I The Black had stopped four times during the 
I night, and each time he had altered his course. Alec 

I wondered whether the stallion’s wild instinct was 

f leading him to land. The sun rose and shone down 
I brightly on the boy’s head; the salt water he had 
I swallowed during the night made him almost mad 
with thirst. But when Alec felt that he could hold 

t 

out no longer, he looked ahead at the struggling, 
fighting animal in front of him, and new courage 
came to him. 

Suddenly he realized that they were going with 
the waves, instead of against them. He shook his 
head, trying to clear his brain. Yes, they were riding 
in; they must be approaching land! Eagerly he 
strained his salt-filled eyes and looked into the dis- 
tance. And then he saw it — about a quarter of a mile 


THE BLACK STALLION 

away was a beach. Only an island, but there might 
be food and water, and a chance to survive ! Faster 
and faster they approached the white sand. They 
were in the breakers. The Black’s scream shattered 
the stillness. He was able to walk; he staggered a 
little and shook his black head. Then his action 
shifted marvelously, and he went faster through the 
shallow water. 

Alec’s head whirled — what stamina and endur- 
ance this horse had! He was being drawn toward 
the beach with ever-increasing speed. Suddenly he 
realized the danger of his position. He must untie 
this rope from around his waist, or else he would be 
dragged to death over the sand! Desperately his 
fingers flew to the knot; it was tight, he had made 
sure of that. Frantically he worked on it as the shore 
drew closer and closer. 

The Black was now on the beach. Thunder began 
to roll from beneath his hooves as he broke out of 
the water. Hours in the water had swelled the knot 
— ^Alec couldn’t untie it! Then he remembered his 
pocketknife. Could it still be there? His hand darted 
to his rear pants pocket; luckily he had buttoned it. 
Alec’s fingers reached inside and came out grasping 
the knife. 

%i / : 



THE STORM 


He was now on the beach being dragged by the 
stallion; the sand flew in his face. Quickly he opened 
the knife and began to cut the rope. His body burned 
from the sand, his clothes were being torn off of him ! 
His speed was increasing every second! Madly he 
sawed away at the rope. With one final thrust he 
was through ! His outflung hands caressed the sand. 
As he closed his eyes, his parched lips murmured, 
“Yes — ^Uncle Ralph — it did — come in handy.” 



25 


3 

STL island 


y^LEC OPENED his cycs. The sun, high in the 
j ^ heavens, beat down upon his bare head. His 
JL jLface felt hot, his tongue swollen. Slowly he 
pushed his tired body from the ground and then 
fell back upon the sand. He lay still a few moments. 
Then he gathered himself and once again attempted 
to rise. Wearily he got to his knees, then to his feet. 
His legs trembled beneath him. He unbuckled the 
battered life belt and let it fall to the ground. 

He looked around ; he needed water desperately. 
He saw the Black’s hoof marks in the sand. Perhaps, 
if he followed them, they would lead him to fresh 
water; he was sure that the stallion was as thirsty as 
he. Alec stumbled along. The hoof marks turned 
abruptly away from the ocean toward the interior of 
26 . 



THE ISLANL 


the island. There was no sign of vegetation around 
him — only hot sand. He turned and looked back at 
the now calm and peaceful sea. So much had hap- 
pened in such a short space of time ! What had hap- 
pened to the others? Was he the only one who had 
survived? His eyes closed and his lips moved. 

A few minutes later he turned and made his way 
up a large hill of sand. At the crest he stopped. From 
where he stood he could see the entire island; it was 
small — ^not more than two miles in circumference. 
It seemed barren except for a few trees, bushes and 
scattered patches of burned grass. High rock cliffs 
dropped down to the sea on the other side of the 
island. 

The Black’s hoof marks led down the hill, and a 
short distance away beneath a few scattered trees, 
Alec saw a small spring-water pool. His dry tongue 
ran across his cracked lips and he stumbled forward. 
To the right of the spring, a hundred yards away, he 
saw the Black — hungrily feasting upon the dry grass, 
Alec again saw that small Arabian port and the 
crowd gathered around the prone figure of the native 
whom the Black had struck. Would he be safe from 
the stallion? 

The Black looked up from his grazing. The boy 

27 


THE BLACK STALLION 

noticed that his halter and rope were gone — some- 
how he had managed to get them off. The wind 
whipped through his mane; his smooth black body 
was brilliant in the sun. He saw Alec, and his shrill 
whistle echoed through the air. He reared, his front 
legs striking out. iThen he came down, and his right 
foreleg pawed into the dirt. 

Alec looked around him. There was no place to 
seek cover. He was too weak to run, even if there was. 
His gaze returned to the stallion, fascinated by a 
creature so wild and so near. Here was the wildest 
of all wild animals — ^he had fought for everything 
he had ever needed, for food, for leadership, for life 
itself; it was his nature to kill or be killed. The 
horse reared again; then he snorted and plunged 
straight for the boy, 

Alec didn’t move. His body was numb. Hypno- 
tized, he watched the stallion coming. Then, twenty- 
five yards from him, the Black stopped. The whites 
of his eyes gleamed, his nostrils curled, his ears were 
back flat against his head. He whistled shrill, clear 
and long. Suddenly he moved between Alec and 
the spring. He pawed furiously at the earth. 

Alec stood still, not daring to move. After what 
seemed hours, the stallion stopped tearing up the 
28 



THE ISLAND 


earth. His gaze turned from the boy to the pool and 
then back again. He whistled, half-reared, and then 
broke into his long stride, running back in the direc- 
tion from which he had come. 

Alec forced his legs into action, reached the spring 
and threw himself on the ground beside it. He let his 
face fall into the cool, clear water. It seemed that 
he would never get enough ; he doused his head, and 
let the water run down his back. Then he tore off 
part of his shirt and bathed his skinned body. Re- 
freshed, he crawled beneath the shaded bushes grow- 
ing beside the pool. He stretched out, closed his eyes 
and fell asleep, exhausted. 

Only once during the night did Alec stir; sleepily 
he opened his eyes. He could see the moon through 
the bushes, high above in the star-studded sky. A 
big, black figure moved by the spring— the Black, 
and only a few feet away! He drank deeply and 
then raised his beautiful head, his ears pricked for- 
ward ; he turned and trotted away. 

Alec awoke very hungry the next morning. He 
had gone a day and a half without eating! He rose 
and drank from the spring. The next thing was to 
find food. He walked for quite some distance before 
he found anything edible. It was a berry bush; the 

29 


THE BLACK STALLION 

fruit was unlike that of anything he ever tasted be- 
fore. But he might not easily find anything else that 
he could eat, so he made a meal of berries. 

Then he explored the island. He found it to be flat 
between the hill, which he had climbed the day be- 
fore, and the rocky cliffs of the other side of the 
island. He made no attempt to climb over the large 
boulders. There were few berry bushes and little 
grass, and Alec realized that food would be scarce 
for him and the Black. The island seemed to be 
totally uninhabited. He had seen no birds or animals 
of any kind. 

He walked slowly back in the direction of the 
spring. From the top of the hill he looked out upon 
the open sea, hoping desperately that he would see a 
boat. Only the vast expanse of blue water spread 
before him. Below he saw the Black cantering along 
the beach. Alec forgot his problems in the beauty of 
the stallion as he swept along, graceful in his swift 
stride, his black mane and tail flying. When the horse 
vanished around the bend of the island, Alec walked 
dowii to the beach. 

The next thing that he must do was to erect some 
sort of a shelter for himself ; and first he must find 

m 



THE ISLAND 


wood. Alec’s eyes swept the shore. He saw one piece, 
then another. 

For the next few hours he struggled with the wood 
that he found cast upon the beach, dragging it back 
toward the spring. He piled it up and was surprised 
to see how much he had gathered. He looked for a 
long, heavy piece and found one that suited his pur- 
pose. He pulled it toward two adjoining trees and 
hoisted it between the two crotches. Suddenly his 
arms shook and he stopped. Painted on the gray 
board was the name DRAKE — it had been part of 
one of the lifeboats ! Alec stood still a moment, then 
grimly he fixed the plank securely in place. 

Next he leaned the remaining pieces of wood on 
each side of the plank, making a shelter in the form 
of a tent. He filled in the open ends as well as he 
could. With his knife he skinned the bark from a 
tree and tied the pieces of wood together. 

Alec went back to the beach and gathered all the 
seaweed that he could carry. He stuffed this into all 
the open holes. He surveyed his finished shelter— he 
was afraid a good wind would blow it down on top 
of him! 

He looked up at the hot sun and guessed it to be 

31 


THE BLACK STALLION 

near noon. His brow and clothes were wet with per- 
spiration from the terrific heat. He cut a long, slen- 
der staff from a tree, tested it and found it to be 
strong. Carefully he skinned it and cut it the right 
length. Then he tied his knife securely to the end of 
the stick with a piece of bark, 

A short time later Alec stood beside a small cove 
which he had discovered that morning. The water 
was clear and the sand glistened white beneath it. 
He seated himself upon the bank and peered eagerly 
into the water. He had read of people catching fish 
this way. After some time he saw a ripple. Carefully 
he raised his improvised spear. Then Alec flung it 
with all his might ; the long stick whizzed down into 
the water and pierced its way into the white sand. 
He had missed ! 

He pulled his spear out and moved to another 
spot. Again he waited patiently. It was a long time 
before he saw another fish. A long slender shape 
moved in the shallow water beneath him. He raised 
his spear, took aim and plunged again. He saw the 
knife hit! Fearing the knife would slip out of the 
fish if he pulled the spear up, he jumped into the 
shallow water and shoved it against the bottom. 
Desperately Alec’s arm flew down the stick, seeking 



THE ISLAKD 


the fish. The water was churned with sand. He came 
to the end, only the steel blade met his searching 
fingers. He had lost it! 

For the rest of the afternoon, Alec strove to catch 
a fish. As darkness fell, he rose wearily to his feet 
and walked slowly back to his new “home.” His eyes 
ached from the hours of strain of constant searching 
into the depths of the water. 

On his way, he stopped at the berry bush and ate 
hungrily. When he reached the spring, he saw the 
Black not far away. He looked up,' saw the boy and 
continued to eat. Moving from one place to another, 
he tore away at the small patches of grass that he 
could find. “I’ll bet he’s as hungry as I am,” thought 
Alec. He dropped down and drank from the spring. 

Darkness came rapidly. Suddenly Alec felt the 
stillness of the island — ^no birds, no animals, no 
sounds. It was as if he and the Black were the only 
living creatures in the world. Millions of stars shone 
overhead and seemed so close. The moon rose high 
and round; its reflection cast upon the pool. 

The Black looked up from his grazing. He, too, 
seemed to watch the moon. Alec whistled— low, then 
louder and fading. A moment of silence. Then the 
stallion’s shrill whistle pierced the night. Alec saw 

33 


THE BLACK STALLION 

the Black look in his direction and then continue 
searching for grass. He smiled and crawled into his 
shelter. The day’s work had made him tired and he 
was soon asleep. 

The next morning found Alec beside the cove 
again with his spear, determined to catch a fish for 
breakfast. At noon he ate berries. Mid-afternoon he 
was sick; his head whirled and he could hardly keep 
his eyes from closing. 

A small whirlpool appeared on the surface of the 
water. Alec grabbed the spear beside him and rose 
to his knees. He saw a gray shape in the water below. 
He raised his spear and moved it along with the fish. 
Then he plunged it ! The spear quivered in its flight. 
He had hit ! He jumped into the water, shoving the 
spear and fish against the bottom. He mustn’t lose 
this one! His hand reached the knife. The fish was 
there — wriggling, fighting. Then he had it. Quickly 
he raised the fish from the water and threw it, and 
the spear, on to the bank. Wearily he climbed up and 
looked at his catch. “Two feet if it’s an inch,” he 
said hungrily. He drew out the spear, picked up the 
fish and went back to camp. 

Alec washed the fish in the spring. Then he placed 
it upon a piece of wood and scaled it. Now if he 
34 



THE ISLAND- 


could only get a fire started. He remembered watch- 
ing a native in India build a fire without matches.. 
Perhaps he could do the same. 

He gathered some small pieces of bark, dry wood 
and a deserted bird’s nest, and spread them on the 
ground in front of him. He picked out the driest 
piece of wood and, with his knife, bored a hole half- 
way through it. Carefully he tore small threads of 
straw from the bird’s nest and placed them inside 
the hole; they would ignite quickly. Next he cut a 
sturdy elastic branch about eighteen inches long from 
a near-by tree, skinned it and placed one end in the 
hole. He leaned on the stick bending it, and then 
rapidly turned the curved part like a carpenter’s 
bit. 

It seemed to Alec that an hour passed before a 
small column of smoke crept out of the hole. His 
tired arms pushed harder. Slowly a small flame grew 
and then the dry wood was on fire. He added more 
wood. Then he snatched the fish, wrapped it in some 
seaweed which he had previously washed, and placed 
it on top of the fire. 

Later, Alec removed the fish. He tried a piece and 
found it to be good. Famished, he tore into the rest 
of it. 


35 


THE BLACK STALLION 

The days passed and the boy strove desperately to 
find food to keep him alive ; he caught only one more 
fish— it would be impossible for him to depend upon 
the sea for his living. He turned again to the berries, 
but they were fast diminishing. He managed to keep 
his fire going as the heat made dry fuel plentiful. 
However, that was of little use to him as he had 
nothing to cook. 

One day as Alec walked along the beach, he saw 
a large red shell in the distance. He gripped his spear 
tighter; it looked like a turtle. Then hunger made 
him lose all caution and he rushed forward, his spear 
raised. He threw himself upon the shell, his knife 
digging into the opening where he believed the tur- 
tle’s head to be. Desperately he turned the huge shell 
over — it was empty, cleaned out; only the hollow 
shell met Alec’s famished gaze. He stood still, dazed. 
Then slowly he turned and walked back to camp. 

The Black was drinking from the spring. His large 
body too was beginning to show signs of starvation. 
Alec no longer felt any fear of him. The stallion 
raised his proud head and looked at the boy. Then 
he turned and trotted off. His mane, long and flow- 
mg, whipped in the wind. His whistle filled the air. 

36 



THE ISLAND 


Alec watched him, envying his proud wild spirit. 
The horse was used to the hardships of the desert; 
probably he would outlive him. The boy’s subcon- 
scious thought rose to the surface of his mind: 
“There’s food, Alec, food — if you could only find 
some way of killing him!” Then he shook his head, 
hating himself. Kill the animal that had saved his 
life? Never— even if he could, he would die of star- 
vation first ! The stallion reached the top of the hill 
and stood there, like a beautiful black statue, his 
gaze upon the open sea. 

One morning Alec made his way weakly toward 
the rocky side of the island. He came to the huge 
rocks and climbed on top one of them. It was more 
barren than any other part of the island. It was low 
tide and Alec’s eyes wandered over the stony shore. 
He noticed the moss-like substance on all the rocks 
at the water’s edge, and on those that extended out, 
bared by the tide. What was that stuff the biology 
teacher had made them eat last term in one of their 
experiments? Hadn’t he called it carragheen? Yts, 
that was it. A sort of seaweed, he had said, that grew 
abundantly along the rocky parts of the Atlantic 

37 


THE BLACK STALLION 

coast of Europe and North America, that, when 
washed and dried, was edible. Could the moss on the 
rocks below be it? Alec scarcely dared to hope. 

Slowly he made the dangerous descent. He 
reached the water level and scrambled across the 
rocks. He took a handful of the soft greenish-yellow 
hioss which covered them and raised it to his lips. 
It smelled the same. He tasted it. The moss was ter- 
ribly salty from the sea, but it was the same as he 
had eaten that day in the classroom ! 

Eagerly he filled his pockets with it, then removed 
his shirt and filled it full. He climbed up again, 
hurried back to camp. There he emptied the moss 
onto the ground beside the spring. The next quarter 
of an hour he spent washing it, and then placed it 
out in the sun to dry. Hungrily he tasted it again. 
It was better— and it was food ! 

When he had finished eating, the sun was falling 
into the ocean, and the skies were rapidly growing 
dark. In the distance Alec saw the stallion coming 
toward the spring. Quickly he picked up some of the 
moss for himself and left the rest on the ground be- 
side the pool. Would the Black eat it? Alec hurried 
to his shelter and stood still watching intently. 

The stallion rushed up, shook his long neck and 

38 



buried his mouth into the water. He drank long. 
When he had finished he looked toward the boy, then 
his pink nostrils quivered. The Black put his nose to 
the ground and walked toward the moss which Alec 
had left. He sniffed at it. Then he picked a little up 
and started eating. He chewed long and carefully 
He reached down for more. 

That night Alec slept better than he had since he 
had been on the island. He had found food — food to 
sustain him and the Black ! 


4 


3^ke mldest of all wild creatures 


T he next day Alec set out to obtain more of 
the carragheen. As he neared the rocks, he 
saw the stallion standing silently beside a 
huge boulder. Not a muscle twitched in his black 
body — it was as if an artist had painted the Black 
on white stone. 

Alec climbed down into a small hollow and paused 
to look out over the rocks below. Suddenly he heard 
the stallion’s scream, more piercing, more blood-cur- 
dling than he had ever heard it before. He looked up. 

The Black was on his hind legs, his teeth bared. 
Then with a mighty leap, he shot away from the 
boulder toward Alec. Swiftly he came — ^faster with 
every magnificent stride. He was almost on top of 
him when he thundered to a halt and reared again. 
40 



the wildest of all wild CREATCREf* 
Alec jumped to the side, tripped on a stone and fell 
to the ground. High above him the Black’s legs 
pawed the air, and then descended three yards in 
front of him! Again he went up and down — again 
and again he pounded. The ground on which Alec 
lay shook from the force of his hooves. The stallion 
was frothing at the mouth, and his crazed eyes nevef 
left the ground in front of him. 

Gradually his pounding lessened and then stopped. 
He raised his head high and his whistle shrilled 
through the air. He shook his head and slowly moved 
away, his nostrils trembling. 

Alec regained his feet and cautiously made his way 
toward the torn earth, his brain flooded with con- 
fusion. There in front of him he saw the strewn parts 
of a long, yellowish-black body, and the diamond- 
shaped head of a snake, crushed and lifeless. He 
stood still — the suddenness of discovering life, other 
than the Black and himself on the island, astound- 
ing him ! Sweat broke out on his forehead as he re- 
alized what a snake bite would have meant— suffer- 
ing and perhaps death ! Dazed, he looked at the stal- 
lion just a few feet away. Had the Black killed the 
snake to save him? Was the stallion beginning to 
understand that they needed each other to survive? 




Slowly the boy walked toward the Black. The 
stallion’s mane swept in the wind, his muscles 
twitched, his eyes moved restlessly, but he stood his 
ground as the boy approached. Alec wanted the 
horse to understand that he would not hurt him. 
Cautiously he reached a hand toward the stallion’s 
head. The Black drew it back as far as he could with- 



the wildest of all wild creatures 
out moving. Alec stepped closer and to the side of 
him. Gently he touched him for an instant. The stal- 
lion did not move. Again Alec attempted to touch 
the savage head. The Black reared and shook a little. 
Alec said soothingly, “Steady, Black-boy, I 
wouldn’t hurt you.” The stallion quivered, then 
reared again and broke. One hundred yards away he 
suddenly stopped and turned, 

Alec gazed at him, standing there so still — ^his 
head raised high in the air. “We’ll get out of this 
somehow. Black — working together,” he said de- 
terminedly. 

Alec walked back to the top of the rocks and 
again began his descent. He made his way carefully 
down to the water level. Cautiously he looked before 
he stepped — where there was one snake there might 
be more. Reaching the bottom, he once again filled 
his shirt full of the moss and made his way back. 
High above him he could see the Black looking out 
over the cliffs, his mane whipping in the wind. When 
he reached the top the stallion was still there. He 
followed a short distance behind as Alec went back 
to the spring. 

Days passed and gradually the friendship between 
the boy and the Black grew. The stallion now came 

■ 43 


•rHE BLACK STALLION 

at his call and let Alec stroke him while he gazed 
with wondering eyes. One night Alec sat within the 
warm glow of the fire and watched the stallion 
munching on the carragheen beside the pool. He 
wondered if the stallion was as tired of the carra- 
gheen as he. Alec had found that if he boiled it in the 
turtle shell it formed a gelatinous substance which 
tasted a little better than the raw moss. A fish was 
now a rare delicacy to him. 

The flame’s shadows reached out and cast eerie 
ghostlike patterns on the Black’s body. Alec’s eyes 
glowed and his face became grim as thoughts rushed 
through his brain. Should he try it tomorrow? Did 
he dare attempt to ride the Black? Should he wait 
a few more days? Go ahead — tomorrow. Don’t do 
it ! Go ahead— 

The fire burned low, then smoldered. Yet Alec 
sat beside the fire, his eyes fixed on that blacker-than- 
night figure beside the spring. 

The next morning he woke from a fitful slumber to 
find the sun high above. Hurriedly he ate some of the 
carragheen. Then he looked for the Black, but he 
was not in sight. Alec whistled, but no answer came. 
He walked toward the hill. The sun blazed down 
and the sweat rolled from his body. If it would only 
44 



THE WILDEST OF ALL WILD CREATURKS 

rain! The last week had been like an oven on the 
island. 

When he reached the top of the hill, he saw the 
Black at one end of the beach. Again he whistled, 
and this time there was an answering whistle as the 
stallion turned his head. Alec walked up the beach 
toward him, his face resolute. 

The Black stood still as he approached. He went 
cautiously up to him and placed a hand on his neck. 
“Steady there, boy,” he murmured, as the warm 
flesh quivered slightly beneath his hand. The stallion 
showed neither fear nor hate of him; his large eye.’ 
were still turned on the sea. 

For a moment Alec stood with his hand on tho 
Black’s neck. Then he walked toward a sand dune a 
short distance away. The stallion followed. He 
stepped up the side of the dime, his left hand in the 
horse’s thick mane. The Black’s ears pricked for- 
ward, his eyes followed the boy nervously— some 
of the savageness returned to them, his muscles 
twitched. For a moment Alec was imdecided what to 
do. Then his hands gripped the mane tighter and he 
threw himself on the Black’s back. For a second the 
stallion stood motionless, then he snorted and 
plunged; the sand went flying as he doubled in the 

45 


THE BLACK STALLION 

air. Alec felt the mighty muscles heave, then he was 
flung through the air, landing heavily on his back. 
Everything went dark. 

Alec regained consciousness to find something 
warm against his cheek. Slowly he opened his eyes. 
The stallion was pushing him with his head. Alec 
tried moving his arms and legs, and found them 
bruised but not broken. Wearily he got to his feet. 
The wildness and savageness had once more disap- 
peared in the Black; he looked as though nothing 
had happened. 

Alec waited for a few minutes — then once again 
led the stallion to the sand dune. His hand grasped 
the horse’s mane. But this time he only laid the 
upper part of his body on the stallion’s back, while 
he talked soothingly into his ear. The Black flirted 
his ears back and forth, as he glanced backward with 
his black eyes. 

“See, Tm not going to hurt you, fella,” Alec 
murmured, as he patted him and let him feel his 
weight. After a few minutes, Alec cautiously slid 
on his back. Once again, the stallion snorted and 
sent the boy flying through the air. 

He picked himself up from the ground — slower 

46 



THE 'WILDEST OF ALL WILD CREATURES 

this time. But when he had rested, he whistled for 
the Black again. The stallion moved toward him. 
Alec determinedly stepped on the sand dune and 
once again let the Black feel his weight. Gently he 
spoke into a large ear, “It’s me. Black— boy, whoa, 
fella.” He slid onto the stallion’s back. One arm 
slipped around his neck as he half-reared. Then like 
a shot from a gun, the Black broke down the beach. 
His action shifted, and his huge strides seemed to 
make him fly through the air. 

Alec clung to the stallion’s mane for his life. The 
wind screamed by and he couldn’t see ! Suddenly the 
Black swerved and headed up the hill; he reached 
the top and then down. The spring was a blur as 
they whipped by. To the rocks he raced, and then 
the stallion made a wide circle— his speed never 
diminishing. Down through a long ravine he rushed. 
Alec’s blurred vision made out a black object in 
front of them, and as a flash he remembered the 
deep gully that was there. He felt the stallion 
gather himself ; instinctively he leaned forward and 
held the Black firm and steady with his hands and 
knees. Then they were in the air, sailing over the 
black hole. Alec slid a little when they landed but 


\\ 

; f i r-% - \ V i 


47 




f i 


THE BLACK STALLIOK 

/ecovered himself in time to keep from falling off! 
Once again the stallion reached the beach, his hoof 
beats regular and rhythmic on the white sand. 

The jump had helped greatly in clearing Alec’s 
mind. He leaned closer to the stallion’s ear and kept 
repeating, “Steady, Black-boy, steady.” The stallion 
seemed to glide over the sand and then his speed 
began to lessen. Alec kept talking to him. Slower 
and slower ran the Black. Gradually he came to a 
stop. The boy released his grip from the stallion’s 
mane and his arms encircled the Black’s neck. He 
was weak with exhaustion — he was in no condition 
for such a ride! Wearily he slipped to the ground. 
Never had he dreamed a horse could run so fast ! The 
stallion looked at him, his head held high, his large 
body only slightly covered with sweat. 

That night Alec lay wide awake, his body aching 
with pain, but his heart pounding with excitement. 
He had ridden the Black ! He had conquered this 
wild, unbroken stallion with kindness. He felt sure 
that from that day on the Black was his — ^his alone ! 
But for what — ^would they ever be rescued? Would 
he ever see his home again? Alec shook his head. He 
had promised himself he wouldn’t think of that any 
more. 

48 



the wildest of all wild creatures 

The next day he mounted the Black again. The 
horse half-reared but didn’t fight him. Alec spoke 
softly in his ear, and the Black stood still. Then Alec 
touched him lightly on the side, and he walked — a 
long, loping stride. Far up the beach they went, then 
Alec tried to turn him by shifting his weight, and 
gently pushing the stallion’s head. Gradually the 
horse turned. Alec took a firmer grip on his long 
mane and pressed his knees tighter against the large 
body. The stallion broke out of his walk into a fast 
trot. The wind blew his mane back into the boy’s 
face. The stallion’s stride was effortless, and Alec 
found it easy to ride. Halfway down the beach, he 
managed to bring him back again to a walk, then to 
a complete stop. Slowly he turned him to the right, 
then to the left, and then around in a circle. 

Fatiguing hours passed as Alec tried to make the 
Black understand what he wanted him to do. The 
sun was going down rapidly as he walked the stallion 
to the end of the beach. He turned and stood still; a 
mile of smooth, white sand stretched before them. 

Suddenly the stallion bolted, almost throwing him 
to the ground. He picked up speed with amazing 
swiftness. Faster and faster he went. Alec hung low 
over his neck, his breath coming in gasps. Down the 

49 









THE BLACKSTALLION 

beach the stallion thundered. Tears from the wind 
rolled down Alec’s cheeks. Three-quarters of the 
way, he tried to check the Black’s speed. He pulled 
back on the flowing mane. “Whoa, Black,” he yelled, 
but his words were whipped away in the wind. 

Swiftly the stallion neared the end of the beach, 
and Alec thought that his breathtaking ride of yes- 
terday was to be repeated. He pulled back harder 
on the mane. Suddenly the Black’s pace lessened. 
Alec flung one arm around the stallion’s neck. The 
Black shifted into his fast trot, which gradually 
became slower and slower, until Alec had him under 
control. Overjoyed he turned him, and rode him over 
the hill to the spring. Together they drank the cool, 
refreshing water. 

With the days that followed, Alec’s mastery over 
the Black grew greater and greater. He could do 
almost anything with him. The savage fury of the 
unbroken stallion disappeared when he saw the boy. 
Alec rode him around the island and raced him down 
the beach, marveling at the giant strides and the 
terrific speed. Without realizing it, Alec was im- 
proving his horsemanship until he had reached the 
point where he was almost a part of the Black as they 
tore along. 

SO 



THE -WILDEST OF ALL WILD CREATURES 

One night Alec sat beside his campfire and stared 
into the flames that reached hungrily into the air; 
his knees were crossed and his elbows rested heavilj 
upon them, his chin was cupped in his two hands. 
He was deep in thought. The Drake had left Bom- 
bay on a Saturday, the fifteenth of August. The 
shipwreck had happened a little over two weeks 
later, perhaps on the second of September. He had 
been on the island exactly — ^nineteen days. That 
would make it approximately the twenty-first of 
September. By now his family must think him dead ! 
He doubled his fists. He had to find a way out; a 
ship just had to pass the island sometime. Daily he 
had stood on top of the hill peering out to sea, fran- 
tically hoping to sight a boat. 

For the first time, Alec thought of the approaching 
cold weather. The heat had been so intense upon the 
island since his arrival that it had never entered his 
mind that it would soon get cold. Would his shelter 
offer him enough protection? He had used every 
available piece of wood on the island to reinforce 
it, but would that be enough? How cold would it 
get? Alec looked up at the clear, starlit sky. 

He rose to his feet and walked toward the hill. 
The Black, standing beside the spring, raised his head 



THE BLACK STALLION 

and whistled when he saw him. He followed Alec 
as he climbed to the top. The boy’s eyes swept the 
dark, rolling sea. White-foamed swells rushed in and 
rolled up the beach. The stallion, too, seemed to be 
watching — ^his eyes staring into the night, his ears 
pricking forward. An hour passed, then they turned 
and made their way back to camp. 

A wind started blowing from out of the west. 
Alec stoked the fire for the night, then crawled 
wearily into his shelter. He was tired, for he had 
spent most of the day gathering carragheen. He 
stretched out and was soon asleep. 

He didn’t know how long he had been sleeping, 
but suddenly the Black’s shrill scream awakened 
him. Sleepily he opened his eyes ; the air had grown 
hot. Then he heard a crackling noise above ; his head 
jerked upward. The top of the shelter was on fire ! 
Flames were creeping down the sides. Alec leaped 
to his feet and rushed outside. 

A gale was sweeping the island and instantly he 
realized what had happened. Sparks from his camp- 
fire had been blown upon the top of the shelter and 
had easily set fire to the dry wood. He grabbed the 
turtle shell and ran to the spring. Filling it, he ran 

back and threw the water on the flames. 

'' 



THE WILDEST OF ALL WILD CREATURES 

The Black pranced nervously beside the spring, 
his nostrils quivering, while Alec rushed back and 
forth with his little turtle shell full of water, trying 
to keep the fire from spreading. But it had a good 
start and soon it had enveloped the whole shelter. 
Smoke filled the air. The boy and the horse were 
forced to move farther and farther back. 

Soon the two near-by trees caught. Alec knew that 
the fire could not spread much farther — the island 
was too barren of any real fuel. But right now the 
flames were devouring everything in sight. They 
roared and reached high into the air. There was noth- 
ing that Alec could do. The one thing he really 
needed — his shelter — was gone. And there was no 
more wood. 

The fire burned a long time before it started to 
die, down. Then the wind too began to diminish. 
Alec sat beside the spring, watching the flames, until 
the first streaks of dawn appeared in the sky. He 
blinked his smoke-filled eyes, gritted his teeth— he 
wasn’t licked yet! He’d find some way to make a 
shelter, and if that wasn’t possible, then he’d sleep 
outside like the Black. 

Determinedly he set out for the beach. Perhaps 
some wood had been swept ashore during the night. 

: 53 



THE BLACK STALLION 

The Black trotted ahead of him. Then Alec saw him 
snort and rear as he reached the top of the hill, and 
plunge back down again. Alec hurried forward. 
From the crest of the hill, he looked down. Below 
him was a ship anchored four hundred yards off the 
island ! 

He heard voices. He saw a rowboat being drawn 
up on the beach by five men. Incredulous, unable to 
shout, he rushed down the hill. 

“You were right, Pat, there is someone on this 
island !” he heard one of the men shout to the other. 

And the other replied in a thick Irish brogue, 
“Shure, and I knew I saw a fire reaching into the 
heavens !” 


54 



5 



escue 


A leg’s eyes blurred; he couldn’t see. He stum- 
jLeJL bled and fell and then clambered to his feet. 
JL \.Again he rushed forward. Then they had 
their arms around him. 

“For the love of St. Patrick,” the man called Pat 
groaned, “he’s just a boy !” 

Words jumbled together and stuck in Alec’s 
throat as he looked into the five pairs of eyes staring 
at him. Then he found his voice. “We’re saved!” he 
yelled. “We’re saved. Black, we’re saved!” 

The sailors looked at him — ^he was a strange sight ! 
His red hair was long and disheveled, his face and 
body so brown that they would have taken him for 
a native if it hadn’t been for the torn remnants of 
his clothing which hung loosely on him. 

' • 55 



THE BLACK STALLION 

One of the men stepped forward. From his uni- 
form he was obviously the captain of the ship. 
“Everything is going to be all right, son,” he said as 
he placed an arm around Alec and steadied him. 

Slowly Alec gained control of himself. “Fm O.K. 
now, sir,” he said. 

The sailors gathered around him. “Is there some- 
one else with you on this island?” the captain asked. 

“Only the Black, sir.” 

The men looked at one another, and then the 
captain spoke again, “Who’s the Black, son?” he 
asked. 

“He’s a horse, sir,” Alec answered. 

And then he told them his story — of the storm 
and the shipwreck, the hours spent in the raging sea 
holding desperately to the rope tied to the stallion’s 
neck, their fight against starvation on the island, 
his conquest of the Black, and the fire which that 
night had reduced his shelter to ashes. Sweat broke 
out upon his forehead as in the vivid word pictures 
he once again lived the twenty days of hardships and 
suffering since the Drake had gone down. 

When he had finished there was a moment of 
silence, and then one of the men spoke. “This lad 

56 





RESCUE 


is imagining things, Captain. What he needs is some 
hot food and a good bed !” 

Alec looked from one face to another and saw that 
they didn’t believe him. Rage filled him. Why should 
they be so stupid? Was his story so fantastic? He’d 
prove it to them, then — ^he’d call the Black. 

He raised his fingers to his lips and whistled. 
“Listen,” he shouted. “Listen !” The men stood still. 
A minute passed, and then another — only the waves 
lapping on the beach could be heard in the terrifying 
stillness of the island. 

Then the captain’s voice came to him, “We have 
to go now, son. We’re off our course and away be- 
hind schedule.” 

Dazed, Alec’s eyes turned from the island to the 
freighter lying at anchor, smoke belching from its 
two stacks. It was larger than the Drake. 

The captain’s voice again broke through his 
thoughts. “We’re bound for South America — ^Rio 
de Janeiro is our first stop. We can take you there 
and wire your parents from the ship that you’re 
alive!” 

The captain and Pat had him by the arms; the 
others were in the boat ready to shove off. Desper- 

" : 57 



THE BLACK STALLION 

ately Alec tried to collect his thoughts. He was leav- 
ing the island. He was leaving the Black. The Black 
— who had saved his life! He jerked himself free, 
he was running up the beach. 

Their mouths wide open, the sailors watched him 
as he stumbled up the hill. They saw him reach the 
top and raise his fingers to his lips. His whistle 
reached them — then there was silence. 

Suddenly, an inhuman scream shattered the still- 
ness — a wild, terrifying call! Stunned, they stood 
still and the hairs on the back of their necks seemed 
to curl. Then as if by magic, a giant black horse, 
his mane waving like flame, appeared beside the boy. 
The horse screamed again, his head raised high, his 
ears pricked forward. Even at this distance they 
could see that he was a tremendous horse — a wild 
stallion. 

Alec flung his arms around the Black’s neck and 
buried his head in the long mane. “We’re leaving 
together. Black — together,” he said. Soothingly he 
talked to the stallion, steadying him. After a few 
minutes he descended the hill and the horse hesitat- 
ingly followed. He reared as they approached the 
sailors, his legs pawing in the air. The men scrambled 
into the boat; only Pat and the captain stood their 

58 



RESCUE 


ground. Fearfully they watched the Black as he 
strode toward them. He drew back; his black eyes 
glanced nervously from Alec to the group of men. 
Alec patted him, coaxed him. His action was beauti- 
ful, and every few steps he would jump swiftly to 
one side. 

Approximately thirty yards away, Alec came to 
a halt. “You just have to take us both. Captain ! I 
can’t leave him !” he yelled. 

“He’s too wild. We couldn’t take him, we couldn’t 
handle him !” came the answer. 

“I can handle him. Look at him now !” 

The Black was still, his head turned toward the 
freighter as if he understood what actually was going 
on. Alec’s arm was around his neck. “He saved my 
life, Captain. I can’t leave him!” 

The captain turned, spoke with the men in the 
boat. Then he shouted, “There isn’t any possible way 
of getting that devil on board, anyway !” He paused. 
“How’ re you going to get him out there?” The 
captain pointed to the ship. 

“He can swim,” answered Alec. 

There was another discussion between captain and 
crew. When he turned, the captain’s heavily-lined 
face was more grim than ever. He doffed his cap and 

59 



THE BLACK STALLION 

ran a large hand through his gray hair. “O.K., son,” 
he said, “you win — ^but you’ll have to get him out 
there!” 

Alec’s heart beat heavily and he gazed at the stal- 
lion. “Come on. Black,” he said. He walked forward 
a few steps. The Black hesitated and then followed. 
Again Alec moved ahead. Slowly they approached 
the group. Then the Black halted, his nostrils quiv- 
tred and he reared. 

“Get in the boat. Captain,” Alec shouted. “Move 
up to the bow. I’m going to get in the stern when 
you get her in the water.” 

The captain ordered his men to shove off, and he 
and Pat climbed in ; then they waited for Alec. 

Alec turned to the Black. “This is our chance. 
Black,” he said. “Don’t let me down!” He could 
see the stallion was nervous; the horse had learned 
to trust him, but his natural instincts still warned 
him against the others. Soothingly Alec spoke to 
him. Slowly he backed away — the Black raised his 
head nervously, then followed. As the boy neared 
the boat, the stallion stopped. Alec kept backing up 
and climbed into the boat. “Row slowly,” he said, 
without turning his eyes away from the horse. 

As they moved away from the beach, Alec called. 
So 



RESCUE 


“Gome on, Black-boy!” The stallion pranced, his 
head and tail erect, his ears forward. He half-reared 
and then stepped into the water. Like a flash he was 
back on the beach; his foreleg pawing into the sand 
and sending it flying. His black eyes never left the 
boat as it moved slowly out into the water. He ran 
a short way down the beach, and then back again. 

Alec realized the terrific fight that the stallion 
was waging with himself. He whistled. The Black 
stopped in his tracks and answered. Slowly the boat 
moved farther away. 

Suddenly the stallion rose high into the air on his 
hind legs, and then plunged into the water. “Come 
on. Black,” shouted Alec. “Come on !” 

The Black was in water up to his big chest now 
— then he was swimming and coming swiftly toward 
the boat. 

“Row for the ship. Captain,” yelled Alec. 

The black head rose in the water behind them, 
the eyes fearfully following Alec as he half-hung 
out of the boat and called to the stallion. The large, 
black body slid through the water, his legs working 
like pistons. 

Soon they reached the freighter. The captain and 
three men sprang up the ladder. Only Pat remained 

6i 



THE BLACK STALLION 

behind with Alec. “Keep him there for two min- 
utes!” the captain yelled over his shoulder. 

The Black reached the rowboat and Alec managed 
to get his hand on the stallion’s head. “Good boy !” 
he murmured proudly. Then he heard the captain’s 
hail from on top the deck. He looked up and saw 
the cargo hoist being lowered ; on the end was a belly 
band to go around the Black so that he could be 
lifted up. He had to get that band around the stal- 
lion’s stomach! 

Alec saw the Black’s eyes leave him and gaze 
fearfully at the line descending over his head. Sud- 
denly he swam away from the boat. Frantically Alec 
called to him. 

As the band came within reach, Pat grabbed it — 
his fingers tore at the straps and buckles. “We’ve 
got to get this around him somehow !” he shouted to 
Alec. “It’s the only way !” 

Alec tried desperately to think. Certainly there 
must be some way! The stallion had turned and 
once again was looking in their direction. If he could 
only get close to him, “Let me have the band, Pat, 
and more line,” he said. 

Pat handed it to him and signaled above. “And 
what are you going to do?” he asked. 

62 



RESCUE 


But Alec didn’t seem to hear his query. He 
gripped the straps of the band tightly. “We’ve come 
this far,” he said to himself. He climbed over the 
side and lowered himself into the water. Pat was too 
astonished to speak. Alec swam a few yards toward 
the Black, the band stretched out behind him; then 
he stopped and trod water. He called softly and the 
stallion swam toward him. 

He came within an arm’s reach and Alec touched 
him, keeping his body far enough away to avoid the 
driving legs. How could he get the band around the 
stallion? Pat was yelling suggestions, but Alec could 
think of only one way that might be successful. 

He sank lower in the water, his hand gradually 
sliding down the Black’s neck; he held the straps of 
the belt tightly in the other. He took a deep breath 
and filled his lungs with air; then he dived sideways 
and felt the waters close over his head. Down he 
went, striving desperately to get enough depth to 
clear the stallion’s legs. He swam directly beneath 
the Black’s belly; the water churned white above his 
head and he caught a glimpse of striking hooves. 
When he felt sure that he was on the other side, he 
started up, his fingers still tightly closed upon the 
straps and the band dragging behind. 


63 



THE BLACK STALLION 

When he reached the surface, he found the stal- 
lion in the same position, his eyes searching for him. 
Now the band was directly below the Black! He 
signaled for Pat to pull up the slack between the 
boat and the horse. All that he had to do now was to 
tighten the band around the stallion by getting these 
straps through the buckles on the other side! Alec 
moved closer to the Black. He would have to take 
the chance of being kicked. He kept as close to the 
middle of the stallion as possible. Then he was be- 
side him. He felt the waters swirling on both sides. 
The line was taut now, ascending in the air to the 
top of the hoist on the freighter. 

The Black became uneasy. Alec reached over his 
back and desperately tried to pull the straps through 
the buckles. A searing pain went through his leg as 
one of the Black’s hooves struck him. His leg went 
limp. Minutes passed as his fingers worked fran- 
tically. Then he had the straps through and began 
pulling the band tighter. The stallion went wild with 
rage as he felt it tighten around him. Alec pulled 
harder. Once again he felt the Black’s hoof strike his 
leg — but there was no pain. He had the straps 
throu^ the buckles as far as they would go; he made 
64 



RESCUE 


sure they were securely fastened, and then wearily 
pushed himself away from the Black. 

A safe distance away, Alec signaled the men on 
the freighter to hoist. He heard the starting of a 
motor and the chain line became more taut. Then 
the stallion was dragged through the water until he 
was beside the ship; his teeth were bared, his eyes 
were filled with hate! Then the hoist started lifting 
him up. Slowly the Black moved out of the water — 
up, up in the air he ascended, his legs pawing madly ! 

Alec swam toward the rowboat, his leg hanging 
limp behind him. When he reached it, Pat hung over 
the side and helped him up into the boat. “Good 
boy,” he said. 

The pain in his leg made Alec’s head whirl. 
Blackness seemed to be settling down upon him — ^he 
shook his head. Then he felt Pat’s big arm around 
his waist and he went limp. 

When Alec regained consciousness, he found him- 
self in bed. Beside him sat Pat — a large grin on his 
face, his blue eyes crinkling in the corners. “For the 
love of St. Patrick,” he exclaimed, "! thought you 
were going to sleep forever !” 


65 



THE BLACK STALLION 

“What time is it, Pat?” Alec asked. “Have I 
been sleeping long?” 

Pat ran a large, gnarled hand through his black 
hair. “Well, not so long, son — you were pretty tired, 
y’know.” He paused. “Let’s see, we picked you up 
Tuesday morning and now it’s Wednesday night.” 

“Whew!” said Alec, “that’s some sleeping!” 

“Well, we did wake you up a couple of times to 
give you some soup, but I guess you wouldn’t be 
remembering now.” 

Alec moved slightly and felt a pain go through 
his leg. His eyes turned to Pat. “Did I get hurt 
bad ?” he asked. 

“The Doc says not — went to the bone, but it’s 
healing nicely. You’ll be all right in a few days.” 

“And the Black — ^what happened?” 

“Lad, never in my life did I ever expect to see the 
like of him ! What a fight he put up — ^he almost tore 
the boat apart!” Pat’s blue eyes flashed. “Lord, 
what a devil ! The moment his hooves touched the 
deck he wanted to fight. If we hadn’t still had the 
band around him, he would have killed us all ! He 
plunged and struck his legs out like I’ve never seen 
before. He wouldn’t stand still. You could have 
helped us, son. We hoisted him in the air again, off 
66 



RESCUE 


his feet. I thought he had gone crazy, his face was 
something terrible to see — ^and those screams, I’ll 
hear them to my dying day !” 

Pat stopped and moved uneasily in his seat. Then 
he continued, “It was when one of the boys got a 
little too close, and that black devil struck him in the 
side and he fell at our feet, that we decided there 
was nothing else to do but choke him ! We got our 
lassoes around his neck and pulled until we had him 
pretty near gone. It was tough on him, but there was 
no other way. When he was almost unconscious, we 
let him down once again and somehow managed to 
lower him below. 

“It was a job, lad, that I hope I’ll never have to 
be in on again. We have some other horses and cattle 
in the hold, too, and they’re all scared to death of 
him. It’s a regular bedlam down there now, and I 
hate to think what might happen when that horse is 
himself again ! We’ve got him in the strongest stall, 
but I’m wondering whether even that’ll hold him !” 

Pat rose from his chair and walked to the other 
side of the cabin. 

Alec was silent, then he spoke slowly, “Pm sorry 
I’ve caused you all so much trouble. If only I’d been 
able to— 


67 



THE BLACK STALLION 

“I didn’t aim to make you feel like that, lad,” Pat 
interrupted. “I guess we knew what we were doing, 
and from the looks of that animal he’s worth it. 
Only we all realize now that he needs you to handle 
him — the Lord help anyone else that tries to !” 

“Tell the captain I’ll repay him and you fellows, 
too, Pat, somehow.” 

“Sure, lad, and now I have some work to do. You 
try and get some more sleep, and tomorrow or the 
next day you’ll be on your feet again.” He paused 
on his way to the door. “If you give me your address, 
we can wire your parents that you are safe, and tell 
them where we’re bound for.” 

Alec smiled and wrote his address on the piece of 
paper Pat handed him. “Tell them I’ll be with them 
■ — soon,” he said as he finished. 


68 



6 

mg of the herd 


yt FEW DAYS later Alec got out of bed for the 

yLJL first time. His injured leg weakly supported 
JL JLhim. As he dressed, a knock came upon the 
door. 

“Come in,” he yelled. 

Pat entered. In his hand was a radiogram. “It’s 
from your folks,” he grinned. 

Alec took it, and read : “Thank God you’re safe. 
Cabling money to Rio de Janeiro. Hurry home. Love. 
Mother and Dad.” 

He was silent a minute and then looked up at 
Pat. “Won’t be long now,” he said. 

Pat smiled. “How’s the leg feel'?” he asked. 

“Not so bad,” Alec answered, as he continued his 
dressing. “How’s the Black doing?” 

“I’m afraid he’s feeling better— it’s a good thing 

' 69^ 



T H E B LACK STALLION 

you’re able to get down there today !” answered Pat. 

Alec drew on a pair of large pants which one of 
the sailors had given him. 

“Kinda big for you, aren’t they asked Pat. 

“Better than walking around without any on.” 
Alec grinned. 

He finished dressing and slowly limped to the 
door. “Have to get to the Black before he tears the 
place apart,” he smiled. He folded the radiogram 
and placed it carefully in his pocket. “Thanks, Pat,” 
he said. 

“Don’t stay on your feet too long, son,” Pat 
warned. “Remember what the Doc said.” 

When Alec entered the hold, he heard the Black’s 
pounding above the bedlam of the other horses and 
cattle. He came to the horse’s stall and saw his black 
head raised above the door. His large eyes moved 
nervously about. Alec called — the stallion’s head 
jerked toward him. His nostrils quivered and he 
neighed. Alec reached a hand out. “Hello, fella,” he 
said, “did you miss me?” The stallion shook his 
head and thrust his nose toward him. Alec ran his 
hand across the soft muzzle. 

He took from his pocket an apple which he had 
saved from his breakfast. He held it out to the Black 

70 



who swept it out of his hand. Alec picked up the 
currycomb and brush from the floor, opened the door 
and went inside. “Guess it was kinda tough on you, 
fella, but they didn’t have any choice,” he said. The 
next hour he spent in brushing the Black , until his 
body shone with brilliancy. 

The days passed quickly to Alec, as he spent most 
of his time in the hold with the Black. His leg 
healed and was soon as good as ever. The captain 
and Pat at first attempted to get him interested in 
the boat and the voyage, but at last they gave up. 
The friendship between the boy and the stallion was 
something too much for them to understand. 

The captain’s hand rose to his chin as he and Pat 
watched Alec inside the stall. “Y’know, Pat,” he 
said, “it’s almost uncanny the way those two get 
along — a wild beast like that, a killer, and yet gentle 
as a kitten when the boy’s around.” 

Pat nodded. “Yes, sir,” he said, “it’s one of the 
strangest things I’ve ever seen. I wonder where it’ll 
take them?” 

Five days later they steamed into Rio de Janeiro. 
The captain delegated Pat to go with Alec to the 
wireless ofiice where he could secure the money his 



THE BLACK STALLIOK 

family had sent him, and to arrange for his sailing 
to the United States. 

As Alec walked with Pat through the South 
American city, he thought how close he was getting 
to home — ^he was on the last leg of his journey ! They 
reached the office and went in. Pat spoke to the man 
at the desk in Spanish. After a few minutes the man 
handed him a pen, and Alec signed his name. Then 
he was handed some money. 

Next they went to the ticket office. Here they 
found that the next boat for the United States 
would sail the following day. Alec had just enough 
money for himself and the Black, and he booked 
passage. He looked at Pat. “That doesn’t leave me 
anything for the captain and you fellows.” 

“Don’t you worry about that, Alec,” Pat an' 
swered. 

When they returned to the boat, Alec made his 
way to the captain’s office. He found him behind 
his large desk working over some papers in front of 
him. He looked up, motioned the boy to sit down 
and continued writing. Finally he stopped and sat 
back in his chair. 

“Well, son,” he said, “we’ve come to the parting 
of the ways, haven’t we?” 

72 ■ 



KING OF THE HERP 


“Yes, sir,” answered Alec. “Pat and I got the 
money and everything all right.” He shoved his hand 
in his pocket and drew out some change. “But this 
is all I have left — you see, sir — well, Mother and 
Dad didn’t know about the Black, and what they 
sent was just enough to get us both back to New 
York.” 

“And now you’re thinking about what you owe 
us, aren’t you?” the captain interrupted. 

“Yes, sir,” replied Alec. “If it hadn’t been foi 
you, we’d probably still be back on the island.” 

The captain arose from his chair and walked over 
beside Alec. He placed an arm on his shoulder. 
“Don’t you worry about us, son, we don’t expect any' 
thing — and you and that horse gave us more excite- 
ment around here than we’ve had in years.” He 
smiled, and they walked toward the door. “You just 
see that you get the rest of the way home safely, and 
that’ll be fine!” ' 

“Thanks, Captain,” Alec said as he went out onto 
the deck. 

“And don’t let anyone steal that black devil from 
you either!” 

“I won’t, sir, and thanks again,” replied Alec. 


73 



THE BLACK STALLION 

The next afternoon he walked the Black down 
the gangplank. He had a firm grip on the stallion’s 
halter, and kept talking soothingly to him. The ship 
that was to take them home had arrived during the 
night and was now being loaded with cargo. Pat and 
some of the sailors gathered around him as he 
reached the dock. 

One by one they said good-bye, until only Pat re- 
mained. “So long, Alec,” he said. “Take good care 
of yourself.” 

“You bet,” answered Alec. “And remember, Pat, 
ivhenever you get to New York, you promised to 
look us up.” 

“Sure, some day perhaps — when I get tired of the 
sea.” He paused. “What are you going to do with 
the Black when you get him home?” 

“1 don’t know, Pat; I haven’t given it much 
thought. I just hope Dad and Mother will let me 
keep him.” 

Pat was looking at the stallion. “He’s built for 
speed. I’ll bet he could tear up a track.” 

“You mean— race?” asked Alec. 

“Perhaps. Eight years ago, before I went to sea, 
I trained some pretty good horses in Ireland. I’ve 
74 



KING OF THE HERD 


never seen any that looked more like a runner than 
this one !” 

“You can bet your last penny on that,” Alec said. 
Memories flashed back of his breathtaking rides on 
the island. “Well, Pat, I have to go now, they’ve 
almost finished loading over there. Good-bye.” He 
held out his hand and the other grasped it. 

“So long, Alec,” he replied, “and good luck !” 

“So long, Pat.” 

Alec led the Black to the other end of the dock, 
A group of horses were gathered in one corner wait* 
ing their turn to be loaded. Dockhands rushed back 
and forth. Cattle and fruit smells mixed together 
filled the air. 

The Black reared, and the other horses shrilled in 
fright as they saw him. Alec took the stallion to a 
far corner. His ears were pitched forward, his eyes 
glared masterfully over the others. 

“Reminds you of the old days, doesn’t it, fella 
said Alec. He smiled, wondered what his mother and 
dad would say when they saw the Black. He was 
glad now they had moved out from the city last year 
to Flushing, one of New York’s suburbs. He waa. 
sure he would be able to find a place near his home 

IS 



THE BLACK STALLION 

where he could keep the Black, providing his mother 
and dad would let him! 

Suddenly the Black screamed loudly and Alec 
felt him tremble. An answering scream filled the air. 
The other horses shoved each other in confusion. 
Alec saw a chestnut stallion being led toward the 
dock. He was big, almost as big as the Black. 

The men leading him stopped on the farther side 
of the dock. Alec was thankful that he wasn’t going 
to be loaded on the same boat with the Black. The 
black stallion pulled restlessly at his rope, his head 
high in the air, his eyes never leaving the chestnut. 

The man holding him was having his troubles, 
too. The chestnut rose in the air. The Black screamed 
and pulled harder on the rope. The other horses 
began to neigh loudly. Alec tried to quiet the Black, 
but he could see that something wild and instinctive 
was rising within him. He remembered the stories 
that his uncle had told him about the tribes of wild 
horses — ^how one stallion alone was king ! 

“Whoa, Black-boy — -take it easy,” he said. The 
stallion was snorting, one leg pawed into the wood, 
his ears were flat back against his head. The chest- 
nut’s whistle rose loud and clear. Alec saw him rise 
into the air. There were yells and shouts from the 
76 








KING OF THE HERD 


sailors. Then he saw the man holding the chestnut 
fall to the ground, and the stallion was loose ! 

The Black reared on his hind legs, and his scream 
was terrorizing. Alec knew now that he could not 
hold him. The rope was jerked from his hands. 

The chestnut and the Black rushed toward each 
other, their thunderous hooves shaking the boards. 
The distance between the two closed rapidly, and 
then they clashed! High in the air they rose on their 
hind legs, their forelegs pawing, striking madly at 
each other. Teeth bared, they lunged at each other’s 
throats. The Black got a hold on the chestnut and 
savagely hung on. Furiously they kicked, their manes 
whipping in the air. The chestnut broke the Black’s 
hold, and for a minute they squared off; then they 
were lunging at each other again. 

Alec couldn’t look — couldn’t look away. Sounds 
of hooves striking bodies, and squeals of terror from 
the other horses mingled with the screams of the two 
savages who fought for supremacy. The Black 
shrieked— louder than Alec had ever heard him be- 
fore. His strength and training were slowly over- 
powering the chestnut. His striking hooves swept 
the chestnut stallion off his feet, and he fell to the 
dock. The Black went high in the air and his hooves 




THE BLACK STALLION 

came down on top of him. Alec closed his eyes. A 
moment later the Black’s scream again came to his 
ears. 

He saw the Black standing over the chestnut, his 
eyes blazing, his body streaked with blood and white 
lather. What would he do next? 

The Black’s head turned toward the group of 
horses huddled in the corner. Majestically he strode 
toward them. They neighed nervously, but none 
moved. Slowly the black stallion walked around 
them — his eyes piercing, triumphant. 

Alec followed him. He heard voices yelling at 
him, “Keep away, boy, keep away till he calms 
down !” But he kept walking. The Black turned and 
saw him. 

The stallion stopped still. Alec came closer. The 
huge black body was torn and bleeding, but his head 
was high, his mane flowing. Alec watched his eyes 
' — he had learned much from the stallion’s eyes. He 
saw a little of the wildness leave them. His nostrils 
stopped trembling, Alec spoke to him softly, 

A minute passed, then another. He picked up the 
rope, still attached to the Black’s halter. He drew up 
the slack and then pulled gently. The stallion’s head 
8o 



KING OF THE HERD 

turned toward him. He hesitated a moment, and 
then turned back to the other horses. Alec waited 
patiently while the stallion surveyed his herd. Then 
he looked again at Alec. It seemed to Alec as if he 
was trying to make up his mind between them. He 
took a few more steps toward the horses — then he 
turned and walked quietly toward the boy. 

Shouts of astonishment broke out among the sail- 
ors. Alec attempted to lead the stallion toward the 
gangplank. The Black stopped and turned his head 
once again toward the horses. For a minute he gazed 
at them. The ship’s whistle blew. Alec pulled a little 
harder. “Come on, Black,” he said. Another minute 
passed, and then the stallion turned again. 

The sailors fell away as they approached. When 
they reached the gangplank, Alec looked over his 
shoulder and saw a crowd gathering around the 
chestnut who was slowly climbing to his feet. The 
man was running his hands over the horse’s legs. 
Then he walked him — the chestnut seemed to be all 
right. Alee was glad — for even though the chestnut 
had started the fight, it might have meant staying 
behind if the Black had hurt him seriously. 

Up the plank they went onto the ship. One sailor, 

8i 


THE BLACK STALLION 

more courageous than the rest, called to Alec, “Fol- 
low me, kid — down this way !” He led the way to a 
box stall, and then moved a safe distance away. 

Alec led the Black into the stall, took off the 
halter, and spread the bedding around. He filled a 
pail full of water. The sailor brought him a jar of 
salve. He was young, not much older than Alec, and 
his face was filled with wonder. “I never in my life 
saw anything like that,” he said. 

“Neither did I,” answered Alec. He felt the 
Black’s legs and sides. “It would be swell if you 
could get me some clean cloths,” he said. “I have to 
be careful of these cuts.” 

“Sure thing!” the sailor boy answered. “We’re 
shoving off in a few minutes, but I’ll be back with 
’em as soon as I can.” 



7 




ome 


A LEC HEARD the ship’s whistle give three short 
/ ml blasts. The last horse came into the hold, 
jt jLshying nervously as he passed the Black’s 
stall. The stallion reached his great head out over 
the door, his ears pricked forward, and his eyes mov- 
ing from stall to stall. 

The boat trembled as the engines began to turn 
over. Alec bent down to wet the cloth in his hand. 
“It won’t be long now,” he thought. Carefully he 
cleaned a deep cut in the Black’s side where the chest- 
nut had kicked him. He felt the stallion quiver as 
the water entered the wound. He was so big and 
powerful. Would he prove too much for him to 
handle'? And what mould his mother and father say 
when they saw him? He had thought of a place to 

83 


THE BLACK STALLION 

keep him. Two blocks from their house in Flushing 
was an old run-down estate. The large, brown house 
was now being used to accommodate tourists. But in 
the rear was an old barn, badly in need of repair, and 
an acre of ground. It would be an ideal place to sta- 
ble the Black. If only his parents would let him keep 
the stallion, he would fix up the barn himself, and 
find work after school to pay for his feed. 

Alec gently rubbed the salve on the cut. The 
Black turned his head. “Had a pretty tough day, 
haven’t you, fella ?” The stallion shook his head, and 
shoved his nose against the boy’s chest, pushing him 
back against the wall. Alec laughed and picked up 
the pail and cloths. 

He shut the door of the stall behind him. The stal- 
lion’s nostrils quivered; his eyes followed Alec as he 
backed slowly away. “Take it easy now. Black-boy,” 
he said. “I have to see what my own bunk looks 
like!” 

The Black screamed as Alec began to climb the 
stairs. There was a loud crash as the stallion’s hooves 
went through the side of the stall. Alec rushed back. 
“Whoa, Boy,” he said. “Whoa.” The Black shoved 
his nose toward him, and he placed his hand upon the 
tender skin. 

84" 



Grooms from the other stalls came running toward 
them. “Everything all right?” one asked. 

“Yes,” answered Alec. “He’s just a little excited.” 

“He’s a mean one, he is! You’ll have to watch 
him!” 

“He just doesn’t like to be left alone,” said Alec, 
“so I guess I’ll stick around.” 

The grooms went back to their jobs. Alec looked 
at the stallion. “Black,” he said, “you’re a whizzer !” 
He went around to the side of the stall and pushed 
the broken board back into place. He looked around 
the hold, and noticed that the grooms had opened 
cots and were placing them beside the stalls. Alec 
found one and did the same. “Looks as though I’m 
going to bunk down here whether I like it or not,” 
he said. 

Alec tossed on his cot that night, as the steamer 
plowed through heavy, pitching seas. Every wave 
seemed destined to send him rolling off his bed. The 
horses were iinding it difficult, too, and their pound- 
ings made the hold a bedlam. Alec could hear the 
Black pawing at the floor of his stall. 

It was still rough the next morning, and continued 
to be rough throughout the day. The horses began to 
get sick and the grooms were kept busy. Only the 


THE BLACK STALLION 

Black remained well. He still held his head as high 
as ever, and moved gingerly about in his stall. 

Night fell and the ocean became wilder. Bolts of 
lightning flashed in the sky and a gale whistled out- 
side. Alec thought of the Drake and the storm that 
had sent it down to the bottom. He rose from his cot 
and went to the stall door. The Black was awake, 
and pushed his nose toward the boy. 

“Not frightened, are you, fella?” A streak of 
lightning made the hold as bright as day, and there 
was a loud crack as it struck the water. The boat 
quivered. Alec’s fingers tightened on the Black’s 
mane. Again darkness, and the boat lurched forward. 
The engines throbbed and once more took up their 
steady chant. 

The Black’s eyes were moving about restlessly. 
He shook his head and his foreleg pawed into the 
floor of the stall. Alec couldn’t blame him for being 
frightened. He reached in his pocket for some sugar 
and held it out to the stallion. The Black moved 
away and pounded harder than ever. 

The ship staggered as a wave crashed against it. 
The grooms were rising from their cots, awakened 
by the storm. The other horses were quiet— -most of 
them too sick to cause any trouble. Alec was afraid 
86 



HOM E 


the Black would get out of control. He opened the 
door and went inside. The stallion backed into a 
comer. Alec held out the sugar. “Whoa, Boy,” he 
said. The Black’s head was high in the air. He 
stopped his pounding as Alec put a hand on his neck. 
He reached down for the sugar. “That’s a good 
fella!” said Alec. Slowly the Black quieted under 
his hand. 

Hours passed and dawn broke in the sky. The 
wind lessened and a torrent of rain poured down. 
One of the grooms came over to the Black’s stall. 
“Isn’t he sick at all?” he asked. 

“A little — ” Alec answered — “mostly nervous;^ 
though.” 

The man looked at the Black admiringly. “Hti 
certainly must have an iron constitution to go 
through seas like this without b^ing sick. He’s th(! 
only animal on hoard that isn’t!” 

Later in the day Alec began to feel queasy in his 
stomach. Desperately he fought against it. At last 
he had to admit that he was seasick. “Guess you’re a 
better man than I am. Black,” he said. 

The next few days Alec didn’t care whether he 
lived or died. Most of the grooms were sick, too, so 
they didn’t pay much attention to him. The ship’s 

:87 


THE BLACK STALLION 

first mate, who acted as doctor on the ship, came 
down, and tried to make him go to his cabin, but sick 
as he was, he realized that he couldn’t leave the 
Black. 

Three mornings later, Alec weakly rose to his feet 
and walked up to the stallion. The ship had stopped 
rolling. “Hello, Boy,” he said. “I see you’re as spry 
as ever !” The stallion’s ears pricked forward and he 
shook his head. 

A groom came up. “How d’you feel, kid?” he 
asked. 

“A little weak,” Alec said, “but otherwise O.K.” 
He paused. “How much longer before we reach New 
York?” he asked. 

“About two more days,” the groom answered, 
“unless we run into some more rough weather — ^but 
I think we’ve had our share of it.” 

“I hope so,” Alec said — and he meant it. 

Two days later the ship’s whistle blew for Quar- 
antine, where the boat was to be inspected before 
passing into New York harbor. The Quarantine in- 
spectors entered the hold and went from stall to stall, 
examining the horses. Alec noticed that each groom 
produced papers and showed them to the officer in 
88 



charge. What would he do when they came to him? 
Perhaps it would be better if he went over now and 
explained why he didn’t have any. Alec started to- 
ward the officer. Suddenly the Black’s scream 
stopped him in his tracks. He turned and saw that 
one of the inspectors had crossed the hold and was 
opening the stallion’s door. “Watch out!” shouted 
Alec, but he was too late. The Black reared and 
struck out with his front feet, striking the man and 
sending him flying against the door. 

Alec rushed to the stall and flung himself between 
the stallion and the inspector. Desperately he 
grabbed the halter. The Black’s frightened eyes 
never left the man on the floor. The inspector, splut- 
tering angrily, climbed to his feet. Alec felt relieved ; 
if he was angry, he couldn’t be hurt very badly. His 
trouser was ripped where the Black had struck him, 
but there were no other signs of injury. 

The other inspectors came rimning. “What’s the 
matter here?” asked the officer in charge. 

“This horse attacked me, sir !” said the man. “He’s 
a dangerous animal.” 

The officer walked closer to the door. “What have 
you to say about it?” he asked Alec who was tightly 
holding the Black’s halter. 


89 


THE BLACK STALLION 

Alec looked at the tall, sharp-featured man, and 
wondered whether he could prevent the Black from 
entering the country. He felt sick at the thought. 
They just couldn’t do that. He met the officer’s eyes. 
“I’m sorry about what happened, sir, and I know he 
wouldn’t have done what he did if your inspector 
hadn’t entered the stall like that. You see, he isn’t 
used to people, sir. No one has ever been near him 
except myself.” 

The officer’s eyes traveled over the stallion. Then 
he walked toward the door and went inside. Alec 
took a firmer grip on the halter. “It’s all right. 
Black,” he said. “Whoa, Boy.” The stallion moved 
uneasily. 

The officer walked slowly around him. “He’s quite 
a horse. Is he yours?” he asked. 

“Yes, sir,” answered Alec. 

“Are your papers all in order?” 

“I haven’t any, sir, but the captain told me it 
would be all right. We were in a shipwreck and ” 

“Oh, you’re the one,” interrupted the officer. 
“We’ve received orders about you. You’re to go 
through.” He smiled. “You’ve certainly had a tou^ 
enough trip as it is without making it any tougher.” 
He turned to the inspector who had his trouser 
90 



HOME 


rolled up and was washing a deep cut. “How’s the 
leg, Sandy?” he asked. 

“It’s O.K., I guess, sir — ^but that horse is the wild- 
est one I’ve seen around here in fourteen years !” he 
answered. 

“And I think the best, too !” smiled the officer. He 
turned to Alec. “You must have quite a story, son — 
shipwrecked, and turning up with an animal like 
this.” 

“It is, sir. We were both on the Drake when it 
went down, and from what I’ve heard we’re the only 
survivors.” He paused. “It’s a pretty long story, sir.” 
He turned to the stallion. “How about it, fella?” 
The Black snorted. 

With a clean bill of health, the boat left Quaran- 
tine and steamed through the Narrows into the har- 
bor. Alec eagerly peered through the porthole beside 
the Black’s stall. His throat tightened as the skyline 
rose out of the sea. Here he was back home again ! 
How differently he had left it five months ago— it 
seemed more like five years ! 

Alec felt the Black’s heavy breathing on his arm. 
He turned and ran his hand across the tender nos- 
trils. “Well, Black,” he said, “we’re home !” 

He could see the two small tugs effortlessly push- 

• 


THE BXAGK STALLION 

ing the big freighter. The buildings climbed higher 
and higher into the sky. A large liner, ocean-bound, 
passed them — its stacks belching white smoke into 
the heavens. Tankers and flatboats loaded with rail- 
road cars crept past. In the distance Alec saw the 
Statue of Liberty. His eyes filled with tears. What 
was the matter with him? He was too old to become 
emotional. But his throat tightened and he swal- 
lowed hard as they neared the symbol of freedom 
and home ! 

An electric ferry plowed through the water beside 
the ship, its decks crowded with people. The sun was 
sinking behind the buildings on the Jersey shore. The 
Black sniffed at Alec’s hand. He turned and smiled. 
“Only a few more minutes, Black,” he said. He 
reached in his pocket and pulled out two lumps of 
sugar and a radiogram. The stallion took the sugar 
from his hand. Alec opened the yellow piece of pa- 
per, and read it once again; “Will be at pier. Can 
hardly wait. Love. Mother and Dad.” 

The steamer was now opposite Brooklyn where it 
was to dock. The tugboats swung the ship around and 
headed toward the shore. The hold was filled with 
noise as the crew prepared to unload the ship. The 
Black became uneasy. 

9 ^ 



HOME 


Then the boat slid up beside the dock. Alec heard 
the bumping of the boat against the dock. The anchor 
chain rattled as it went to the bottom. A few minutes 
later the hold doors were thrown open. 

The crew began to unload the horses. Because of 
the Black’s reputation, they made him wait imtil all 
the others were off. Then one of the crew signaled to 
him. “O.K.,” he said. Alec smiled as he saw him 
move quickly away out of the way. 

Alec led the Black out of his stall, his hand tight 
on the halter. The stallion’s head rose high; he knew 
that something unusual was going to happen. Lightly 
he pranced toward the door. The pier was crowded 
with people. Dusk had fallen and the lights were on. 
The Black snorted; he had never seen anything like 
this. He reared, but Alec brought him down. It was 
a cool fall night. A breeze blew in throu^ the open 
door, whipping his mane. His large eyes moved 
nervously, and he uttered a short, sharp whistle. He 
shook his head and screamed louder. 

Sudden silence fell upon the dock, and all eyes 
turned toward the Black as he stood in the doorway. 
Slowly Alec led him down the gangplank. He felt 
his black body tremble as the city noises became 
louder and louder, now that the pier was quiet. Half- 

93 


THE BLACK STALLION 

way down, the Black suddenly went high into the 
air. Alec brought him down. Three of the crew 
started up the gangplank to help. The Black saw 
them and rose again, his legs striking out in front. 
The men stopped in their tracks. The stallion had 
broken into a sweat. 

Alec knew that he was losing control over him. He 
took a firmer grip on the halter, holding with two 
hands. A truck drove onto the pier, its two blazing 
headlights coming swiftly toward them. The Black 
screamed and rose once again. Alec was lifted from 
his feet, still gripping the halter. The stallion flung 
him to one side; he lost his hold, fell down to the 
gangplank. High above him he saw the pawing 
hooves. Cries from the spectators shattered the still- 
ness. 

The Black came down, his forelegs landing on 
each side of Alec’s head! He snorted, turned and 
disappeared inside the hold. Alec lay still, dazed for 
a moment. Then he felt hands helping him to his feet. 

'^Are you all right?” one of the men asked. 

“Yes, I’m O.K.,” answered Alec. “Just a little 
shaken.” 

“You should be after that! He’s a wild one!” 

A policeman came running up, his gun' in one 


94 



HOME 


hand. Fear for the Black crept into Alec’s heart. Hf 
looked at the officer. 

“Don’t shoot him !” he said. 

“I’m not going to,” answered the policeman, “un- 
less he endangers any lives.” 

Alec’s strength slowly returned. 

“I’ll get him,” he said. 

“I’ll go along with you,” said the officer. The 
other men backed down off the gangplank. 

“Perhaps I can do this better alone, sir,” said Alec. 

“Perhaps — ^but I’ll go along just in case .” 

Alec entered the hold first. He saw the horse 
standing beside his stall. His frightened eyes turned 
toward the boy. 

“What’s the matter, fella?” Alec said. “Is New 
York too much for you?” Cautiously he moved for- 
ward and placed his hand on the stallion’s neck. The 
Black moved nervously. “Sure, it’s new to you, but 
it really isn’t so bad after you get used to it.” 

The stallion shoved his nose against Alec’s chest. 
Alec put his hand in his pocket, drew out some sugar 
and gave it to him. He waited while the wild look 
gradually left the Black’s eyes. 

Then he took hold of the halter and led the Black 
toward the door. The policeman moved to one side. 

95 ' 


THE BLACK STALLION 

The stallion reared again when he again saw the 
lights and the crowd. Alec quickly turned him and 
went back to the stall. 

The officer spoke up, “Take off your sweater, kid, 
and blindfold him.” 

“Good idea.” Quickly he drew off his sweater. He 
led the stallion to a box, and stepped on it so as to 
reach his eyes. He folded the sweater and placed it 
across them, tying it in the back. The stallion jerked 
his head and tried to toss it off. He half-reared. 
Alec’s assuring hand and voice calmed him down. 

Once again he led him toward the door. When 
they appeared in the doorway, the crowd shouted. 
Carefully Alec led the stallion down the plank. He 
saw the stallion’s ears prick forward and then go flat 
back against his head. His breathing became heavier. 
He shook his head and half-reared again. Alec placed 
both hands on the halter, but then remembering how 
the stallion had pulled him into the air before, with- 
drew his left hand and placed it on the rope attached 
to the halter. He glanced below; it seemed that thou- 
sands of upturned faces were watching them. 

Halfway down, the Black again reared into the 
air. Once again Alec felt himself start to leave the 
gangplank. He let go of the halter and let the rope 

96 



HOME 


slide through his hands. The stallion went high and 
then descended. Alec dodged the front hooves. 
White-faced, he again seized the rope, led the Black 
on down. A few more feet and they were on the dock. 
The crowd shoved aside quickly to get out of the 
stallion’s path. 

The Black made a beautiful sight. He moved 
lightly on his feet; he tossed his head trying to rid 
himself of the blindfold; his mane waved in the 
wind. Alec’s white sweater across his eyes made a 
sharp contrast against his coal-black body. “He’s 
getting used to the noises,” thought Alec, but he 
never relaxed his hold on the stallion’s halter. 

Suddenly he heard his father’s voice. “Alec, Alec 
— ^here we are!” He turned, saw his mother and 
father standing on the edge of the crowd — Dad just 
as tall and thin as ever. Mother just as short and 
plump. Their faces were as white as the sweater 
across the Black’s eyes. Alec moved toward them, 
then he remembered the stallion. He saw his mother 
grip his dad’s arm. He stopped a short distance away 
from them. 

“Hello, Mother and Dad!” was all he said, 
though his heart was full. He could see his mother 
had been crying. Grasping the end of the rope so as 

97 


THE BLACK STALLION 

to keep hold of the Black, Alec ran up to her, threw 
his arms around both of them. 

“It’s good to see you, Alec,” his father said after 
a few minutes. 

“It’s good to be home,” answered Alec. His 
mother smiled. 

The Black moved restlessly beside him. Alec 
looked at him, then at his parents. “He’s mine,” he 
said proudly. 

“I was afraid of that,” said his father. His mother 
was too astonished to say anything. He saw his dad’s 
eyes going over the stallion. He had done a lot of 
riding in his day and it was from him that Alec, even 
as a small child, had learned to love horses. He said 
nothing, but Alec could tell that he was admiring 
the Black. 

“I’ll tell you the whole story later. I owe my life 
to him.” 

His mother seemed to have regained control of 
herself. “But he’s so dangerous, son — he threw you 
down- — But she stopped, puzzled, as she met the 
calm, self-reliant look in the eyes of the boy who was 
holding the horse. This couldn’t be her son, the boy 
who had left her only five months ago! 

98 



HOME 


“What are you going to do with him, now that 
you’ve got him?” asked his father. 

“I don’t know. Dad, but I do know where I can 
keep him !” The words poured out of his mouth. He 
knew that he must convince his parents right now, 
once and for all, that the Black must be his — for 
keeps. “There’s that old barn in the old Halleran 
place up the street where the Daileys are living now. 
I’m sure they’d let me keep him there for almost 
nothing, and he’d have a whole acre of ground to 
graze in ! I’ll work. Dad, after school, to make money 
to pay for his feed. Let me keep him, won’t you?” 

“We’ll see, son,” said his father quietly. He smiled 
reassuringly at Alec’s mother. “We’ll take him home 
and see how it works out. Only remember, Alec, he’s 
your responsibility — ^yours to take care of and yours 
to feed. You’ve got a big job on your hands. I’ll see 
to it that he gets to Flushing, but from then on it’s 
up to you !” 

A young man made his way cautiously around the 
Black and walked up to them. He carried a camera 
in one hand, with the other he removed his hat, dis- 
closing hair as black as the stallion’s body. “Pardon 
me,” he said to Alec, “I’m Joe Russo of the Daily 

99 


THE BLACK STALLION 

Telegram. Fd like to take a few pictures and get 
your story. I understand you’re the only survivor of 
the Drake that went down off the coast of Portugal.” 

Alec pointed to the Black. “He was there, too,” 
he said. 

“Say, this is a story!” Joe Russo exclaimed. “You 
mean that horse was on the boat, too?” 

“Yes,” Alec answered. “He certainly was.” 

“What happened when the boat sank?” Joe asked, 
genuinely interested. He wrote hastily with his 
pencil. 

“It’s too long to tell you now,” Alec replied. “Be- 
sides there is so much to be done around here. . . .” 
He turned to the Black, whose eyes were turning 
nervously from side to side. 

“Let me help you with him,” Joe said with all the 
persistence of a young reporter. “You’re going to 
need a van to get him home, and I think I know 
where I can get one. Then later on you can give me 
the whole story !” 

“O.K.,” Alec said, grateful for any assistance 
with the immediate problem of getting the Black 
home. 


loo 



8 


TXapoL 


apoieon 


A N HOUR later Alec led the Black into a small, 
jLmA covered truck that Joe Russo had secured to 
JL \.carry him home. His mother had gone 
ahead, driving the family car. “You won’t get me to 
ride with that horse !” she had said. His dad sat in 
front with Joe Russo and the driver. Alec, afraid to 
leave the Black alone, stood in the rear with him. 
The stallion snorted as the truck began to move into 
the street. His eyes were still covered with the 
sweater. 

Taxicabs roared past, their horns blowing loudly. 
Trucks rattled toward the ship to pick up cargo. Men 
shouted in the streets. Cart peddlers clamored their 
wares. Noise, noise, noise — this was the Black’s in- 
troduction to New York. 

loi 


THE BLACKSTALEION 

Alec’s hand was firm on the halter. Out of the 
small window in back of the driver he could see the 
buildings blazing with lights. New York seemed 
strange to him, too — ^he had forgotten. The stallion 
moved uneasily, his head jerked in an attempt to 
throw off the sweater. “Whoa, boy,” said Alec. He 
patted the smooth, black coat. Down through the 
city streets they went. 

Alec’s dad kept looking around, as if he couldn’t 
take his eyes off Alec and the stallion, his head high 
in the air above the boy. Slowly the truck moved in 
and out of the traffic. An elevated train roared over’ 
head. The stallion whistled and half-rose, almost 
hitting the top of the truck. Alec pulled him down. 

Gradually the traffic lessened. They moved farther 
out of the business section and turned toward Flush- 
ing. The worst was over now, and the Black was 
quiet. Alec was free to think of what fun it was go- 
ing to be to ride him in that big field near the barn— 
if they would only let him keep him there ! 

Then the van was going down the main street of 
Flushing. Alec peered out the window eagerly. It 
was good to see the familiar stores and buildings 
again. Two more blocks and they turned down a side 


102 


NAPOLEON 


Street. Another ten minutes, and Alec saw his own 
house on the right. His dad turned and smiled at 
him through the window. Alec smiled back. 

The truck rolled on past and down the street to the 
old Halleran house. The van turned into the drive- 
way past a large “Tourists” sign. It came to a stop 
in front of the door. 

Alec’s father came around to the side of the van. 
“O.K., Alec,” he said, “it’s up to you now. Better 
go in and see whether Mrs. Dailey will let you keep 
him in the barn.” 

Alec let go the Black’s halter. “Take it easy, Boy,” 
he said. Then he jumped off the van, went up the 
porch steps and rang the doorbell. The Daileys had 
moved into the old Halleran place shortly before 
Alec went to India, so he wasn’t very well acquainted 
with Mrs. Dailey, who now came to the door. She 
was a large, comfortable-looking, heavy-set woman. 

“Hello, Mrs. Dailey,” Alex said. “Remember 

mer 

“Why, you’re the young lad from up the street, 
but they told me- — She paused in obvious amaze- 
ment. “They told me that you had been drowned in 
a shipwreck.” 

103 


THE BLACKSTALLION 

“We were rescued,” Alec said. “Just got home to- 
night.” 

“Your mother and father must be awfully thank- 
ful,” she said. “You must have had an awful time !” 

“It was pretty bad, Mrs. Dailey — ^but what I 
wanted to see you about, Mrs. Dailey, was — well, I 
brought back a horse with me — we were rescued to- 
gether.” 

“A horse !” she exclaimed. 

“Yes,” said Alec, “and Dad told me I could keep 
him if I found a place for him to stay. I’d like to put 
him in one of the stalls in your barn — I’ll pay you for 
it,” he added. 

“But the barn isn’t in very good shape, son,” said 
Mrs. Dailey. She smiled. “And we already have a 
boarder in the one good stall !” 

“A boarder?” 

“Yes, Tony, the huckster, keeps old Napoleon 
down there now.” 

“Napoleon? Do you mean the old gray horse he’s 
always had?” Alec asked. 

“Yes, that’s the one — seems to me he should die 
any day now, though, then you’ll be able to use his 
?tall!” 

104 



NAPO LBON 


“But I don’t know of any other place I could keep 
my horse, Mrs. Dailey.” Alec was beginning to feel 
desperate. “Don’t you have another stall he could 
use?” 

“Well, I suppose the stall right next to Napoleon 
could be fixed up, but I haven’t the time or the money 
to have it done. If you want to keep your horse there, 
you’ll have to fix it yourself.” 

“Sure I will, Mrs. Dailey!” said Alec happily. 
“Could I keep him there tonight?” 

“Oh, all right,” she gave in with a smile. “And if 
you do a good job in the bam, I’ll go easy on the 
rent.” 

“That’s swell of you, Mrs. Dailey. I’ll do a good 
job all right !” 

“I’ll get my husband to open the gate for you,” 
she said. “Henry!” she called loudly. “He’ll be 
down in a few minutes, I suppose. You can drive to 
the gate — I’ll have him meet you there.” 

“Thanks again, Mrs. Dailey,” said Alec. “Thanks 
a million times.” He turned and leaped down the 
porch steps. 

“She’s going to let me keep him here !” he shouted 
as he jumped on the mnning board of the van. 

105 


VHE BLACK STALLION 

“That’s good,” answered his father. 

“You’re quite a salesman!” laughed Joe Russo. 
Alec saw that he was making notes on his pad. 

“Wait until she sees what’s going to stay in her 
barn!” said Alec’s father gravely. 

They drove past a high iron fence until they 
reached the gate. There they stopped and waited for 
Henry. Finally he showed up— a short, chunky man 
with large shoulders. He came toward them walk- 
ing in jerky, bowlegged strides. His white shirt tails 
flapped in the night wind. He wiped a large hand 
across his mouth. “Right with you,” he yelled. He 
shoved a key inside the lock and then pushed back 
the heavy gate ; the hinges creaked as it swung open. 
“Come on,” he said. 

The van rolled through and went up the gravel 
road to the barn. The headlights shone on the large 
door. Henry came up behind them. “I’ll open the 
door,” he said, “and you can bring him right in.” 

Alec let down the side door of the van so that he 
could get the stallion out. He grasped the halter. 
“It’s your new home. Boy!” he said. Slowly he led 
the stallion down to the ground. The Black tossed his 
head and kicked up his heels. 

“Look at him!” said Alec. “He feels swell al- 
io6 



NAPOLEON 


ready!” He saw the men gazing admiringly at the 
stallion. 

Henry leaned on the barn door; his eyes moved 
slowly over the Black. “The Missus told me you had 
a horse — ^but I never expected one like this!” He 
shook his head. “Good head, wide chest, strong legs,” 
he muttered, almost to himself. 

Alec led the Black into the barn. In the box stall 
nearest the door was Napoleon, his old gray head 
hanging out over the stall door. He whinnied when 
he saw the Black and drew his head back into the 
stall. 

“Shall I put him next to Napoleon there, Mr. 
Dailey?” Alec asked. “Do you think it’ll be safe? 
He gets pretty nervous sometimes.” 

“Sure, put him there. Old Napoleon will be more 
of a help to him than anything — steady him down.” 
Henry went over to a corner of the barn and picked 
up an armful of straw which he carried back into 
the stall and spread around. “We’ll borrow some of 
Tony’s straw for bedding. He won’t mind.” Henry 
made two more trips. “Now you can put him in, 
son,” he said. “There are a few things that need to 
be fixed, but I guess it’ll hold him — -you can do a 
better job tomorrow.” 

107 



“Thanks,” Alec said. 

“What are you going to feed him tonight, Alec? 
Did you think of that?” his father asked. 

“Gee, that’s right!” said Alec. “I had forgotten!” 
He turned to Henry. “Where do you think I could 
get some feed, Mr. Dailey?” 

“Well, Tony gets his down at the feed store on the 
corner of Parson and Northern, but I imagine they’re 
closed now. But you can use some of Tony’s here, 
though, and pay him back when you get your own.” 
“Swell,” answered Alec. He led the Black into 
108 



NAPOLEON 


the Stall next to Napoleon’s. It was a little run-down, 
but it was roomy, and Alec could tell that the stal- 
lion liked it. He stood very patiently while Alec re- 
moved his halter and rubbed him down. Then Henry 
handed Alec a pail of feed and Alec dumped it into 
the Black’s box. 

Old Napoleon stuck his head curiously over the 
board between the stalls. The Black saw him, strode 
over and sniffed suspiciously. Napoleon didn’t move. 
Alec was afraid they might fight. Then the Black 
put his head over into Napoleon’s stall and whinnied. 
Napoleon whinnied back. 

Henry laughed. “See, what’d I tell you? They’re 
friends already,” 

Alec left the stall, feeling more easy about the 
Black than any time since they had begun the long 
journey home. “I’m glad he likes Napoleon,” he 
said. “Perhaps I can leave him now. He has to learn 
to be alone sometime.” 

“He looks as though he’ll be all right,” said his 
father. “In fact, he seems to like it here. He isn’t so 
wild, after all !” 

“He’s all right. Dad, when he gets used to things. 
It’s just when something new upsets him that he gets 
^ut of control.” 

109 


THE BLACK STALLION 

“Well, son, let’s go home and see your mother. 
She’s probably worrying herself to death.” 

Joe Russo spoke up. “I hate to make a nuisance of 
myself, Mr. Ramsay, but I’d like to go along and 
get your son’s story. It has all the earmarks of a good 
yarn and I certainly could use one !” 

Alec’s father smiled. “Sure, it’s all right. Glad to 
have you. This is a day of celebration for us, you 
know!” 

Henry led the way out of the barn. Alec heard the 
Black’s soft whistle as the light went out. Then there 
was silence. Henry shut the barn door. 

A slight chill had crept into the air. The van had 
already gone. They walked slowly down the gravel 
road toward the gate. Henry handed Alec the key 
to the lock. “You can have this, son,” he said. “I’ve 
another up to the house, and you’ll probably be com- 
ing around here a lot now.” 

“Thanks, Mr. Dailey,” replied Alec. “I certainly 
will.” 

“That’s all right — and you don’t have to call me 
Mr. Dailey — ^just call me Henry like everyone does 
around here. Anything else seems kind of funny !” 

“Right, Henry.” 

Henry left them at the gate. They crossed the 
: no 



NAPOLEON 


Street and walked up toward the house. Alec saw a 
light on the front porch and his legs traveled faster. 

“Take it easy,” said his father. “I’m not as young 
as I used to be, you know !” 

“I can’t even keep up with that pace myself,” 
laughed Joe, “and I’m still pretty young.” 

“I’ll meet you there,” said Alec, and he broke into 
a run. 

He reached the house and took the porch steps 
two at a time. He flung himself at the door. It was 
unlocked; he ran into the hallway and glanced into 
the living room ; it was empty. He put a hand on the 
banister and started up the stairs. Then he heard his 
mother’s voice from the kitchen. “Alexander, is that 
you?” 

“Yes, Mom, it’s really me,” he yelled. He ran into 
the kitchen and flung his arms around his mother. 
“Boy, it’s good to be home !” he said. 

He looked up at his mother and saw that her eyes 
were moist. “What’s the matter. Mom? What are 
you crying for?” 

Mrs. Ramsay smiled through her tears. “Nothing’s 
the matter, son. I’m just glad you’re home, that’s all.” 

Alec put his lean brown arm through his mother’s 
soft plump one, and together they went into the liv- 

111 


THE BLACK STALLION 

ing room as his father and Joe Russo came in from 
outdoors. 

The reporter looked around the room with its soft 
shaded lights and its comfortable-looking furniture, 
then at Alec and his father and mother. “Guess you 
couldn’t blame him for wanting to get back to this,” 
Joe said. 

“You bet!” Alec agreed. 

His mother sat down on the couch and Alec sat be- 
side her, his arm still in hers. His father was filling 
his pipe in his favorite chair in the corner. “All right, 
son — shoot,” he said. “Tell us all about it.” 

“Well,” Alec began, “it was a few days after I 
left Uncle Ralph at Bombay that we stopped at a 
small Arabian port on the Red Sea ’’ 

The clock on top of the radio ticked off the minutes 
as Alec told his story. Once more he was on the 
Drake and seeing the Black for the first time. He for- 
got that his mother, his father and Joe Russo were 
listening to him. He was in the storm, hearing the 
roar of the gale and the smashing of the waves against 
the boat. He heard the loud crack of lightning as it 
struck the ship. Then the Black was drawing him 
through the water — ^hours and hours they battled the 
waves in the darkness. He roamed the island, fight- 


112 



ing against starvation. He discovered the carragheen 
that had saved them both. He rode the stallion for 
the first time — that wild, never-to-be-forgotten ride ! 
Then the fire, that awful fire, which turned out to 
be a blessing in disguise. The joy that was his when 
he saw the sailors dragging their boat up the beach. 
Rio de Janeiro — Thorne. ... 

He finished, and there was silence. His mother’s 
hand was gripping his. The clock ticked loudly. 
It seemed to say, “You’re home . . . you’re 
home ...” 

His father’s pipe had gone out. “I don’t know 
what to say, son” — ^he broke the silence — “except 
that God must have been with you — and with us.” 
He turned to Mrs. Ramsay. “We’re pretty thankful, 
aren’t we. Mother?” 

Alec felt the pressure of her hand. “Yes,” she an- 
swered, “we have much to be thankful for.” 

“I can understand now how you love that horse,” 
Joe Russo said. 

“Yes, Alec,” said his father, “I can promise you 
now he’ll always have a place here with us.” 

“If it wasn’t for him — that wild, untamed ani- 
mal— his mother said. 

Joe Russo stood up. “I want to thank you for 

. "• , 113 


THE BLACK STALLION 

letting me stay,” he said. “If there is anything I can 
ever do ” 

Mr. Ramsay rose from his chair. “That’s all right. 
Glad to have helped you,” he said. “Good night.” 
He held out his hand. 

“Good night, sir.” He smiled at Alec and his 
mother. “Take good care of that horse,” he said to 
the boy. 

“You bet I will,” answered Alec. “And thanks 
for all you’ve done.” 

Not long after Joe left, Alec said good night to 
his parents and went to bed. The excitement of being 
home and sleeping in his own bed again made him 
restless. He lay awake for an hour, then he fell into 
a sound sleep. 

Suddenly a shrill whistle awakened him. He 
opened his eyes sleepily. Had he been dreaming or 
had he actually heard the Black scream? The night 
was still. A minute passed. Then he heard the whistle 
again — it was the Black. 

Alec jumped out of bed. The clock on his dresser 
told him it was only a little after twelve! He was 
wide awake as he pulled on his robe and quickly ran 
down the stairs and out the door. He heard the Black 
114 



N A t O L E O N 


scream again as he entered the gate. Lights flashed 
on in Henry’s house — then in the houses near by. 
The Black was waking everyone up ! Alec sprinted 
toward the bam. He reached the door. The light 
was on ! 

The Black screamed when he saw him. His head 
reached far out over the stall. 

“Mio Dio!” a voice was moaning from inside 
Napoleon’s stall. Alec couldn’t see anybody- — only 
old Napoleon, who stood trembling on the far side 
of his stall. His frightened eyes turned beseechingly 
toward Alec. “Mio Dio!” came the voice again. 

“Hello,” yelled Alec. “Who’s there?” 

The Black pawed nervously at the floor of his stall. 
Then Alec saw a hand move over the top of Na- 
poleon’s door and cautiously push it open. Suddenly, 
like a charging fullback, a man plunged through the 
stall door. 

He swept past and was outside before Alec could 
catch a glimpse of him. The Black whistled again. 
“Hey, Black,” yelled Alec, “take it easy !” Then he 
ran toward the door and looked out into the night. 
Alec saw a man standing beside Henry, who had just 
arrived on the scene. It was Tony, the huckster, 

US 


THE BLACK STALLION 

owner of Napoleon! Poor Tony, he’d probably been 
frightened to death at sight of the Black in the stall 
next to Napoleon ! 

“Hello, Tony,” Alec called as he made his way 
toward him. Some of the neighbors, their robes pulled 
hastily about them, were coming up the driveway. 
Then the sound of a police siren reached Alec’s ears. 
“Gee whiz,” he said as a police car turned into the 
driveway. “Tony, you’re all right, aren’t you?” he 
asked. 

“Sure, he’s all right,” answered Henry, grinning. 
“The Black just surprised him.” 

Tony only nodded. He was still too scared to 
speak. A small crowd gathered around them. 
“What’s the matter here?” asked the policeman as 
he got out of his car. 

“Nothing serious, officer,” Henry spoke up. “I 
own this bam and took in another horse tonight, un- 
known to Tony here. They both sorta surprised each 
other— that’s about all there is to it.” 

“That right?” the officer asked Tony. 

Tony found his voice. “Si” he said, “that’s right. 
I was goin’ to fix a harness sore on da Napoleon— 
he hurt himself today — when I saw da new horse, 
and he saw me. Si,” he looked at Henry, then back to 
116 



NAPOLEON 


the policeman, “he sure made da surprise all right.” 

The crowd laughed at Tony’s speech. “Well,” 
said the policeman, “guess everything’s all right 
around here then. Who owns the horse?” 

“I do, sir,” Alec answered. 

“You’re rather young to own a horse that does 
such a big job of scaring people.” The officer smiled. 

“I just brought him to New York yesterday,” 
Alec replied. “He’s still pretty nervous, but he’ll get 
over it.” 

“He sounds like quite a horse. Would you mind 
letting me take a look at him?” the policeman asked. 

“Be glad to,” Alec said. 

The small crowd moved forward, pushing Tony 
in front of them. Alec stopped at the door of the 
bam. “Most of you will have to watch from here,” 
he said. “Too many people will get him excited 
again.” 

The Black neighed softly as Henry, Alec, Tony 
and the policeman approached the stall. Napoleon 
stuck his head over the stall door and neighed at 
sight of Tony, who hung back. The Black still pawed 
at the floor of his stall. Alec rubbed his nose. 

“He’s a beauty,” the policeman said. “I’ve al- 
ways had a weakness for horses ever since I spent two 

117 



THEBLACKSTALLION 

years on the mounted force. Don’t know as I’ve ever 
seen one like this, though,” He paused, then after 
watching the Black a few minutes, he continued, 
“Yep, looks like everything’s O.K. around here — 
and I have to get back to the station. So long.” He 
left and took the crowd with him. 

Tony stayed in the barn with Alec and Henry. 
Gingerly he moved toward Napoleon, keeping one 
watchful eye on the Black. The stallion pushed his 
head forward. He neighed. “He likes you and Na- 
poleon,” Alec said. 

Tony reached a hand to the Black’s muzzle, then 
jerked it away quickly as the stallion shook his head. 
Alec and Henry laughed. “Si,” said Tony, “I like 
heem too, after awhile !” 

A short time later, Alec once again climbed the 
stairs to his bedroom. Luckily his parents were both 
sound sleepers — ^it was better that they didn’t know 
of the commotion the Black had made. 

Alec climbed wearily back into bed. He was really 
tired now. He glanced at the clock — two-fifteen — 
and he wanted to be over to the barn early the next 
morning! His head fell back on the pillow. He was 
soon fast asleep. 


ii8 



9 


S 


Dscape 


T he next morning when Alec opened his 
eyes, he saw the familiar high school banners 
hanging on the walls. It was good to be in 
his own room again. Then right away he wondered 
how the Black was after his rumpus of last night! 
Alec turned on his side and looked out the window. 
The sim was rising. It must be around six o’clock. 

Not much sleep — ^but then he was accustomed to 
that after the last few months. The leaves on the 
trees were turning a bright autumn red. He was glad 
his father had told him he wouldn’t have to go to 
school today. “One more day won’t hurt,” he had 
said, “and it’ll give you a chance to accustom your- 
self again.” He knew what his dad had really meant 
was that it would give him a chance to accustom the 
Black to his new surroundings ! 


fs- 



H9 


I inia 



THE BLACK STALLION 

Alec jumped out of bed and ran to the bathroom. 
He took a cold shower, dressed and tiptoed down the 
stairs. He opened the door and went out into the 
crisp morning air. It was quiet as only early morning 
can be. The grass was wet with a heavy dew. He 
walked down the street, softly whistling to himself. 
A safe distance away from the house he began to sing. 

He found the gate ajar. Someone must be there 
already — perhaps Tony ! He ran up the road toward 
the barn, and heard a deep bass voice coming from 
inside. “San — ta Lu — chi — a, Santa Lu — Ckia!’* 
Sure, that couldn’t be anyone else but Tony ! The 
barn door was open. Alec saw the little Italian sit- 
ting on a chair, his eyes fastened on the two stalls 
from which were coming deep munching sounds. 

“Hello, Tony!” 

Tony turned, his dark, wrinkled face creasing into 
a broad smile. “Hello,” he said. “You see, Fm not 
afraid of heem anymore !” 

“Yes,” Alec laughed, “I can see that. You’ll get 
along swell with him as time goes on !” 

“Ah, he’s one grand animal — reminds me of when 
Napoleon was a young fella! So frisky, so full of 
pep, and when he saw me feed Napoleon, he let me 
feed heem too !” 


120 



ESGAPE 


“That’s pretty good, Tony. Usually he won’t let 
anyone get near him but myself.” 

“Look at them,” Tony said. 

N apoleon had shoved his nose through the bars and 
was trying to get at the Black’s feed box. The stal- 
lion playfully nipped him. Napoleon withdrew his 
head and looked over the stall door. 

“Time to go to work, young fella,” laughed Tony. 
He let him out of the stall, and rubbed his hand over 
the gray, ragged coat. “Tomorrow I give heem a good 
bath so he’ll be white as snow !” he said. 

Alec watched Tony harness Napoleon. He saw 
him tenderly arrange a thick pad over the cut on 
Napoleon’s shoulder. He noticed that the Black 
was also an interested spectator. 

“Give me a hand, will you, Alec? We’re kinda 
late this morning,” Tony said. 

Alec helped to harness old Napoleon to the little 
huckster’s wagon. It seemed child’s play to handle 
the gentle old gray horse after the spirited stallion. 

They heard the Black scream inside. Alec ran into 
the bam. “What’s the matter. Black?” he said. 

The long black neck was stretched questioningly 
into the next stall. He missed Napoleon. 

“Napoleon has to go to work, Boy, but he’ll be 


121 



THE BLACK STALLION 

back tonight.” Alec opened the door and took the 
Black by the halter. He grabbed the lead rope from 
a nail outside the stall and fastened it to the halter. 
Then he led the Black out. 

Tony was climbing into the seat of the wagon. 
“Well, Alec, we gotta go,” he said. “See you to- 
night. Come on, Napoleon.” 

Napoleon raised his head and neighed as he saw 
the Black. He refused to move. Tony shook the reins. 
“Come on, now, Nappie. We gotta go !” he repeated. 
Napoleon shook his head, looked at the Black, then 
resignedly started off. 

The Black pulled at the rope. He wanted to fol- 
low. Alec held him back. He reared high into the 
air; his ears pitched forward and he snorted angrily. 

Alec smiled. “Hate to see your roommate leave, 
don’t you?” 

They watched Tony and Napoleon go slowly 
down the gravel road to the gate. Napoleon broke 
into a slow trot down the street. 

When they were out of sight, the Black moved in 
a circle around Alec. 

“Feeling pretty good, aren’t you, Boy?” Alec let 
the rope out to give the Black more room. He led him 
toward the open field, encircled by a stone wall. 


122 



ESCAPE 


“You’re going to like this to graze in,” he said. “Just 
look at all that grass !” 

The Black cropped the green grass hungrily. When 
he seemed to have had enough, Alec ran down the 
field with him. “Not too fast now. Black!” Alec 
called as the stallion cantered ahead of him. Half- 
way down the field he found himself tiring and 
pulled the Black to a halt. 

“How about giving me a ride now. Black?” he 
asked. He looked for a place to mount him. He drew 
the stallion alongside the stone wall, climbed up on 
it and slid onto the Black, grasping the halter with 
both hands. 

He hadn’t had a chance to ride him since the is- 
land. The Black stood still a moment, then broke 
into a trot. Alec was able to guide him fairly well 
with the halter and he found that the stallion still 
remembered his lessons on the island. 

Down the field they went, the wind whipping in 
Alec’s face, the early morning stillness echoing with 
the stallion’s hoof beats. His long powerful strides 
made the field seem much too small. Alec turned him 
around the edge and started him back up the field. 
They went faster and faster. Alec dug his knees 
into the stallion’s sides and his own body moved 

, 123 




THE BLACK STALLION 

rhythmically with the Black’s. They swept past the 
barn and Alec turned him back down the field again. 
Around and around the field they went. 

After awhile Alec managed to slow him down a 
bit. The Black continued around the field at a gallop. 
Then he slackened into a trot. Alec had never been 
happier. Home at last — and with a horse like this ! 
All his very own ! He buried his head in the Black’s 
mane and wiped his hand across his eyes, drying the 
tears the wind had brought to them. 

They approached the barn. Alec saw Henry 
Dailey leaning against the door watching them. He 
rode up to him and dismounted, catching hold of 
the stallion’s halter. “Morning, Henry,” he said. He 
felt the Black’s coat. “Not even wet. . . . What a 
horse, Henry! We’ve been going around that field 
like the wind ! Did you see us?” 

Henry didn’t move from the door but Alec saw 
his small gray eyes going over the Black inch by 
inch. “Sure, I saw you,” he said. “Son, I’ve seen a 
lot of horses in my day and rode my share of ’em, 
but I never saw one give any better exhibition than 
that!” 

Alec beamed with pride. “He is swell, Henry, 
isn’t he? I still can’t believe he’s mine!” The stal- 
124 ■ 



ESCAPE; 


lion’s long neck reached down to the ground and he 
buried his nose in the green grass. 

“Let him loose, Alec. See how he likes it,” said 
Henry. 

“Do you think it’s safe?” 

“He’s all right now. You gave him a good run. 
Besides he has to get used to being left alone, any- 
way.” 

“Guess you’re right, Henry.” Alec unhooked the 
lead rope from the halter. The stallion raised his 
head and his nostrils quivered. Suddenly he wheeled 
and trotted swiftly down the field. 

Alec and Henry watched him. “It’s the first free- 
dom he’s had in a long time,” said Alec. 

“And he’s sure enjoying it.” Henry looked after 
the Black admiringly. 

The stallion stopped and turned his great head to- 
ward them. He whistled softly. 

“Boy, I’d love to see him on a track!” Henry said 
thoughtfully. 

“You mean race, Henry?” Alec asked. 

“Yep.” 

Alec turned to the Black, who was now loping 
down the field again in an easy, graceful canter, his 
head turning from side to side. “It’d take a long time 

125 



THE BLACK STALLION 

before he’d be safe on any track though, Henry.” 

“Well, we have plenty of time, haven’t we, Alec*?” 

“We?” Alec stared at the small husky man beside 
him. “You mean, Henry, that you and I could 
do it ?” 

Henry hadn’t moved — ^his eyes still followed the 
Black around the field. “Sure, we can,” he said 
quietly, and then his voice lowered so that Alec could 
hardly hear him. “Never liked this business of retir- 
ing, anyway,” he said. “Not too old — ^still have 
plenty of good years left in me ! This life’s all right 
for the Missus — she’s got enough to do to keep her 
busy, but I need action. And here I have it shoved 
right into my lap !” His voice grew louder. “Alec,” 
he continued, “I know we can make a champion out 
of the Black.” His face was wrinkled with excite- 
ment, his eyelids narrowed until they were only slits 
in his lined face. 

“You really mean it, Henry But how— — ” 

The old man interrupted him and he moved for 
the first time. “Sure, I’m confident, Alex, and I know 
my horses.” He took the boy by the arm. “Come with 
me and I’ll show you something.” 

Henry led him to the far end of the barn. He knelt 
down beside an old trunk. He took a key from his 


120 



ESCAPE 


pocket, inserted it into the lock and opened it. The 
trank was crammed to the top with trophies and 
silver cups. Henry dug down and pulled out a large 
scrapbook. “The Missus always kept this for me, 
even before we were married.” 

He turned the faded yellowish pages that were 
filled with newspaper clippings. Headline after head- 
line caught Alec’s eye as he knelt beside Henry: 

DAILEY RIDES CHANG TO VICTORY IN SCOTT ME- 
MORIAL DAILEY BRINGS WARRIOR HOME FIRST IN 

$50,000 FUTURITY TURFDOM ACCLAIMS DAILEY AS 

GREATEST RIDER OF ALL TIME — Henry Stopped turn- 
ing the pages, his eyes gazing steadily at a photograph 
in front of him. “This, son,” he said, “is where I got 
the greatest thrill of my life — riding Chang home 
first in the Kentucky Derby. Wouldn’t think that 
little guy there was me, would you^” 

Alec looked closer. He saw a small boy, with a 
wide grin on his face, astride a large, powerful-look- 
ing red horse. Around the horse’s neck hung the win- 
ner’s horseshoe of roses. Alec noticed the large, strong 
hands holding the reins and the stocky, broad shoul- 
ders. “Yes,” he said, “I can tell that’s you.” 

Henry smiled and reached down into the trunk 
again. He took out what looked to Alec like old 

127 



THE BLACK STALLION 

dried-out leaves. Then he saw that they were in the 
shape of a horseshoe. He looked again at the photo- 
graph. 

“Yes,” Henry said, “it’s the same one they placed 
around Chang’s neck that day. Not much left of ’em, 
but they still hold plenty of memories !” 

Henry put the dried flowers back into the trunk. 
“When I finally got too old and too heavy to ride 
horses any more, I trained them instead,” he con- 
tinued. “I married the Missus and we were both 
pretty happy. We had two children — ^both girls; 
now they’re married. Somehow, I’ve always missed 
not having a boy — someone like you, son, who loved 
horses, and who would sort of follow in my foot- 
steps, because there isn’t anything so exciting in the 
world as lining up there at the post with a four- 
legged piece of dynamite Underneath you ! 

“Well, to go on, I was pretty successful as a 
trainer, made good money. And then came the day 
when the Missus thought it was time for us to retire 
and get away from the track. Can’t say as I blame 
her, it’s the only life she ever knew after she married 
me, and I guess it wasn’t in her blood like it was in 
mine. We did a lot of movin’ around for a good many 
years, then we bought this place, and here we are. 
128 



ESCAPE 


It’s been two years since I saw my last race — two 
years. I don’t think I can stand it much longer.” 

Henry paused again. “You see, Alec,” he said, 
“I’m telling you this to show you that if there is 
only one thing that I do know anything about it’s 
whether a horse is any good or not — and let me tell 
you we can make the Black the greatest racer that 
ever set a hoof on any track!” 

Henry closed the book with a sharp crack and 
placed it back inside the trunk. He rose to his feet 
and put his hand on the boy’s shoulder. “What do 
you say, son — are you game?” 

Alec looked at the old man and then toward the 
open door where he could see the Black in the dis- 
tance. “It would be great, Henry!” he said, “and 
I know he would give any horse in the world a grand 
race — if we can just keep him from fighting.” 

“It’ll be a tough job, Alec, but it’s going to be 
worth it to see him come pounding down the home- 
stretch!” 

“Where can we train him, Henry?” 

“We can’t do much until spring, Alec— -just let 
him get used to it around here. You can ride him 
around the field and I’ll teach you all the tricks I 
know. We won’t be able to do much else with him 

129 



THE BLACK STALLION 

with winter coming on. I don’t think we’ll even 
bother with a bridle and saddle yet — •we’ll wait un- 
til early spring for that, too. By that time we 
shouldn’t have much trouble putting them on him. 
Then I think I can find a way to get him over to Bel- 
mont for some workouts on the track — ^that’s when 
the real training begins !” 

“Sounds swell, Henry ! Do you think I’ll be able 
to ride him in the races?” 

Henry smiled. “Unless I’m very much mistaken, 
that horse isn’t going to let anyone else ride him.” 

As they walked toward the door, the loud drone 
of an airplane filled the air. “That fellow’s awfully 
close to the ground !” said Alec. “His motor seems 
to be missing, too !” 

They ran outside and saw a monoplane flying low 
over the barn; its motor stuttered and than caught 
again, shattering the early morning stillness with a 
deafening roar. “He’s got it!” said Henry. 

But Alec wasn’t watching the plane now ; he had 
heard something above the plane’s roar. The sharp, 
piercing whistle of the Black! Alec saw the stallion 
rise on his hind legs and wheel in the air, running 
at breakneck speed down the field. 

“Look, Henry!” Alec shouted. “The Black!” The 


130 



ESCAPE 


Stallion was nearmg the end of the field, his pace 
never slackening, his long, black mane whipping be- 
hind him like waves of smoke. 

“Lord!” said Henry. “The plane scared him! 
He’ll kill himself on those rocks !” 

“He’s not going to stop, Henry !” Then they saw 
the Black gather himself, and, like a taut, powerful 
spring just released, sail through the air and over 
the fence. 

“Seven feet if it’s an inch!” exclaimed Henry. 
“Come on, we’ve got to get him!” Together they 
rushed down the field. They saw the Black in the dis- 
tance — ^then he was out of sight ! Suddenly Henry 
stopped. “I’ll go back and get the car, Alec. You 
keep after him !” he said. 

“All right,” Alec shouted over his shoulder. “He’s 
headed for the park!” Quickly he climbed the fence, 
and ran as fast as he could in the direction the stal- 
lion had taken. Soon Henry caught up to him in the 
car. “Climb in, son,” he said. The Black was no- 
where to be seen. 


131 



e seam 


"■OR A half an hour Alec and Henry frantically 
looked for the Black. Up and down the streets 
, . they sped in Henry’s car. 

“Lucky it’s so early in the morning, Alec — ^not so 
many people aroimd,” Henry said. 

“What time is it?” Alec asked, never taking his 
eyes off the road in front of him. 

Henry pulled his large silver watch out of his vest 
pocket. “Seven o’clock,” he grunted. 

“We’ve just got to find him, Henry— before it’s 
too late !” the boy declared. 

“What do you mean— too late ?” Henry asked. 
“I’m afraid of some cops shooting him. Gosh! 
That would be terrible !” 

Henry nodded and pushed his foot harder on the 
accelerator. The car jumped ahead. 

132 



THE SEARCH 


“Turn down this street, Henry — the park’s just 
ahead ; maybe he’s there.” 

Alec saw two men on a street corner. “Pull over 
there, Henry. We’ll ask them if they’ve seen him. 
They seem to be pretty excited over something!” 

Alec leaned out of the car. “Say, Mister,” he 
yelled, “did you see a horse run down here?” 

“Sure did,” one of them answered. “He shot past 
here like a streak of lightning ten minutes ago! 
Where the devil did he come from?” 

“Thanks,” said Alec without answering the man’s 
question. The car lurched ahead as Henry stepped on 
the gas. 

“We’re on the right track, anyway, Alec,” Henry 
said grimly. A few minutes later they entered the 
park. Henry slowed down. “You look over there, kid 
— I’ll take care of this side.” 

“It’s an awfully big park,” Alec said dis- 
couragedly. 

“All the better,” grinned Henry. “Not much 
chance of him hurting anyone then!” 

The car rolled through tree-lined roads. Henry 
and Alec both leaned out the sides of the car. After 
a few miles they approached the rolling green fair- 
ways of the golf course. 


133 



THE BLACK STALLION 

“He might have gone out there, Henry,” Alec 
said. “Plenty of hills, just what he’d be looking for.” 

“Let’s park the car here and take a look, Alec,” 
Henry said as he brought the car to a stop. 

Alec had to trot to keep up with Henry’s short 
but energetic strides across the fairway. The air was 
cool and crisp, but starting to warm up from the 
bright sun that was climbing higher and higher in 
the cloudless blue sky. Their shoes made deep squish- 
ing sounds in the early morning dew. 

“Going to be a hot day,” muttered Henry, never 
slowing his pace. Alec jogged beside him. “Hope we 
can find him before the early morning golfers start 
coming out,” he said. 

When they reached the middle of the fairway, 
Henry stopped. “You’d better go in the direction of 
that wood over there,” he said. “I’ll go down this 
fairway a piece toward that hill. If either of us finds 
him, give a yell.” 

“O.K., Henry,” Alec said. He started off in the 
direction of the wood. His feet were soaked. He 
stopped and started to remove his shoes, then think- 
ing better of it, straightened up and continued at a 
fast pace. He went down into a large gully. At the 
bottom he turned and followed the gully as it wove 

134 



THE SEARCH 


in and out across the fairway. Soon he entered the 
wood. He climbed to the top of the gully and looked 
about. Henry was out of sight. The dew on the green 
grass glistened in the distance. The air was quiet 
and cooler in the shade of the big trees. Alec knew 
that on the other side of the wood was another fair- 
way. He hastened toward it, following the path 
which he had traveled many times as a caddy during 
the summer months in the past. 

He reached the other side and looked across the 
stretch of green carpet spread before him. The Black 
was nowhere to be seen. Alec whistled — ^but there 
was no answer. He started across the fairway. “Still 
have a lot of ground to cover,” he thought. “He’s 
liable to be anyplace.” 

For what seemed hours, Alec trudged up and 
down the hills of the course looking for the Black. 
The sun was higher now and hotter. He became more 
and more desperate as he saw no sign of the stallion. 
He removed his white sweater and flung it over his 
arm. He reached the top of a high hill and looked 
below him. In the distance he could see some men 
playing golf, 

“Henry might have foimd him,” he thought hope' 
fully. He had.covered more than half the course and 

135 



the black stallion 
the Black surely wasn’t around here. Alec whistled 
s gain. If the Black was within hearing distance, he 
surely would recognize his whistle. But there was 
no answering call. 

Perhaps the stallion hadn’t entered the park at all. 
Perhaps he was still somewhere in the streets. But 
Alec felt the stallion was too intelligent for that. 
His natural instinct would lead him to the open 
spaces here in the park. He must be around some- 
where! Alec began to climb back down the hill to- 
ward the fairway. He had covered his territory 
thoroughly. Then he stopped. He hadn’t been to the 
Hole where he and the fellows always went for a 
swim after their day of caddying. It was off the 
course, but there was a chance the stallion’s instinct 
had led him toward the water. 

He had to look there — ^he mustn’t let even a slim 
chance slip by. Alec turned in his tracks and went 
alongside the hill. His legs ached, and his wet feet 
weren’t helping matters any. He walked about a mile 
before he came to another wood. He followed a well- 
hidden path down into a hollow and then up again. 
It was at least nice and cool in here. The Hole was 
just ahead now. Alec quickened his steps. He reached 
the top of the hill and looked down. The water glis- 
136 


tened below him. The pool wasn’t large and if the 
Black was there, he surely would see him. But there 
wasn’t any sign of him. 

The wood was quiet except for the staccato-like 
tapping of a hard-working woodpecker in a near-by 
tree. Hope faded within Alec — ^he had played his 
last hunch. It was the natural place for the Black to 
be — the only pool of water for miles around. He took 
one final look. Even the shadows on the side of the 
pool wouldn’t have been able to conceal the stallion. 
He just wasn’t there. 

Back along the path he climbed wearily. What 
had happened to his horse? He saw the Black lying 
dead in the street, killed by a car or by a policeman’s 
bullets. It just couldn’t be — it couldn’t end that way ! 
Probably Henry had found him already. 

A sharp, cracking noise broke the stillness. He 
whirled. It came from the direction of the pool. He 
hurried back and looked down. On the other side, 
something was making its way through the thick 
imderbrush and coming in the direction of the water ! 
Alec stood still, scarcely daring to hope! There 
wasn’t any path over there. Whatever it was, was 
making its own way through the bushes. The noise 
became louder and louder. Then suddenly a huge 

137 


THE BLACK STALLION 

black head appeared. It was the Black ! Alec saw him 
reach his long neck down and bury his nose into the 
cool water. 

Relief paralyzed him for a moment. Then he whis- 
tled softly. The Black raised his head, water dripping 
from his mouth. He looked up. Alec whistled again 
and ran down the slope toward the pool. The stal- 
lion saw him. He shook his head and whistled. Alec 
slowed down to a walk. Cautiously he covered the 
distance around the pool and approached the Black. 

“What’s the matter, fella — ^scared he asked. 

The stallion shook his head and moved toward 
him. His black coat was dirty and his long mane 
covered with burrs. Alec patted the dripping muzzle. 
“Had a tough time, didn’t you. Boy!” He ran his 
hand down the stallion’s neck, wiping the dirt off. 
'‘Gee, it’s good to see you!” he said. 

The stallion again pushed his nose into the cool 
water and drank deep. When he had finished, Alec 
grasped the halter that was still around his head. 
“Gome on, Boy, let’s get going home.” 

The Black refused to move. Alec spoke softly to 
him and rubbed a hand across his neck, but the stal- 
lion stood firm. Alec pulled on the halter again. The 
Black’s eyes swept around, then rested on the boy. 
138 






THE SEARCH 


He shook his head and slowly moved after him . 

Alec led him up the path through the wood. When 
they reached the fairway, he stopped and looked at 
the horse. “Wouldn’t give a guy a lift, would you, 
Mister?” he asked. The Black moved swiftly to one 
side, his eyes turned toward the open fairway, “I’m 
really pretty tired. Black — ^you gave me quite a 
chase, you know.” He led the Black over to a tree 
stump, stepped on it and threw himself onto the 
stallion’s back. 

“Come on. Boy,” he said, “let’s go.” 

The Black walked fast out onto the fairway, and 
then broke into a trot. Alec turned him toward the 
spot where he had left Henry. “Better get off this 
course in a hurry,” he thought, “or they’ll have the 
riot squad after us for tearing up the ground !” 

After riding for about five minutes, Alec saw 
Henry in the distance walking toward them. “Had 
just about given up,” Henry said when Alec rode up. 

“I almost did, too,” Alec said. “Found him away 
over by the Hole.” 

“Looks as though he’s been rolling around in the 
dirt.” 

“He’s had a time for himself, all right,” Alec an- 

14J 



tHE BLACK STALLION 

.swered. “Look at the burrs on him — must have gone 
through a lot of underbrush.” 

“We can get those oS.” Henry glanced at his 
watch. “But right now we’d better be getting back — 
almost nine o’clock.” 

For the first time Alec realized that he had had no 
breakfast and that his parents didn’t even know 
where he was. “Mother’ll be wondering what’s hap- 
pened to me,” Alec said. Late for his first break- 
fast home! 

“And the Missus isn’t going to be welcoming me 
with eager arms, either,” Henry said gravely. “Prom- 
ised her I’d go down to the market this morning, but 
it’s too late now.” 

Alec jumped off the Black and walked beside 
Henry, holding the Black by his halter. Soon they 
reached the car. “Better go by way of Golden Street,” 
Henry said, “and miss the traffic. Guess you’ll have 
to lead him — that’s the only way.” 

“You drive ahead slowly, Henry, just in case I 
need you,” Alec said. 

The car rolled out of the park and Alec and the 
Black followed it. Twenty minutes later, after no 
mishaps, they neared the stable. The stallion’s ears 
142 


THE SEARCH 


pricked forward when he saw the barn. “Fm going 
to have to build that fence higher, Henry,” Alec 
yelled. 

“ ’Fraid so,” answered Henry, “or we’ll be spend- 
ing half our time chasing this fellow around !” 

Henry drove, up to the barn, and Alec followed 
with the Black. “Fll put him in his stall for the rest, 
of the day, Henry,” he said. 

“Good idea,” replied Henry. “He’s sure had 
enough exercise for one day, and so have I.” 

“Me, too,” answered Alec. “I’ll put him away 
and then go home and eat. I’ll come back later and 
clean him up.” 

“O.K., son. Fll probably be seeing you — ^that is,” 
he laughed, “if I can get out !” He turned and walked 
toward the house. 

Alec put the Black in his stall and ran a cloth over 
his body. He put some hay in the stallion’s feed box. 
“There, that’ll hold you until I get back,” he said. 
“Be a good fellow now and take it easy, won’t you?” 

The stallion pawed his foreleg into the floor and 
shook his head. “You’d better behave,” Alec laughed. 
“You’ve caused enough trouble for one day.” He 
shut the bam door and made his way home. 

143 



THE BLACK STALLION 

Alec heard the living-room clock strike nine-thirty 
as he walked into the house. “That you, Alec?” His 
mother’s voice came anxiously from the kitchen. 

“Yes, Mom,” he answered, as he walked into the 
room. “Dad gone to work?” His nose wrinkled as 
he snifEed the appetizing aroma of griddle cakes and 
sausages. 

“Yes,” his mother answered. “He wanted to see 
you, but he couldn’t wait any longer. Where on earth 
have you been all this time? And just look at you !” 

“I’ve been exercising the Black, Mom,” Alec an- 
swered. He didn’t know whether he should tell his 
mother about the Black running away. He decided 
against it — it would only worry her more, and now 
that the stallion was back, everything was all right. 

“You certainly spend a lot of time with that ani- 
mal,” his mother said. “I don’t know what you’re 
going to do when you have to go to school.” 

Alec walked over to the kitchen table and sat 
down. He felt the water oozing out of his shoes. 
“Oh, I’m going to get up early every morning. 
Mom,” he said, “and feed and groom him before I 
go to school.” He fumbled with his shoelaces under- 
neath the table, attempting to get his shoes off with- 
out his mother’s noticing him. 

144 


“When the weather’s nice,” he continued, “I’m 
going to leave him outside to graze during the morn- 
ing. ril he in the early session at school this term 
and have classes right through, and get out at twelve- 
thirty. That’ll give me lots of time in the afternoon 
to be with him.” Alec slipped his shoes and stockings 
off and wound his feet around the legs of the chair. 

“I don’t want you to neglect your studies, Alec, 
his mother said. “If I see you doing that, I’ll have to 
tell your father, and we’ll have to do something about 

the Black.” 

“He won’t interfere. Mom,” Alec answered, as he 
hungrily applied butter and maple syrup to the 
griddle cakes his mother placed before him. Life was 
settling down to normal again — as normal as it 
could ever be with the Black. 



11 


ff^artners 


T he rest of the day passed quickly for Alec. 
After breakfast, he slipped upstairs while 
his mother was in the living room and put on 
dry shoes and stockings. When he came down, he 
visited with his mother, sharing little incidents of his 
experiences on the island and telling her about Uncle 
Ralph and the fun they had had together in India. 
In the afternoon he groomed the Black until the 
stallion’s black body glistened, and his long mane 
fell smoothly down on his neck. 

Henry came into the stable. “Been cleaning the 
attic,” he grunted. He carried a large package 
wrapped in newspapers under his arm. He placed the 
bundle down on the floor. “Come here and look what 
I found,” he said to Alec. 

146 







He began unwrapping the package, as Alec knelt 
beside him. The papers, brown with age, cracked and 
fell apart as he took them oif. Inside was a small 
racing saddle and bridle. Henry gently lifted them 
out and looked at them. He didn’t say anything. A 
minute passed and then he reached down into the 
bundle again. Almost caressingly he drew out a blaz- 
ing green jockey cap and shirt. Alec looked down 
into the bundle and saw a faded pair of riding pants 
and black boots. 

Henry’s eyes lifted and he spoke softly. “Every- 
thing’s here — even my number.” He held the shirt in 
his hand. Around the sleeve still hung the white 
number 3. “Seems like only yesterday I wore ’em 
in the last race I ever rode.” 

Henry stopped. Alec didn’t speak — ^he could tell 
from Henry’s face that once again he was living that 
race over. 

“We went to the post,” the little man said, as if 
to himself . “It was the largest crowd ever to see the 
Preakness. They were all for Qiang, too — 'he was the 
greatest race horse of the day- How they roared 
when we lined up. The other horses wouldn’t stand 
still. But nothing ever bothered Chang — ^he let the 

149 



THE BLACK STALLION 

Others do the frisking. He just waited quietly for 
the barrier to go up. 

“I never saw the rest of ’em in that race. Chang 
leaped ahead at the start, and I gave him his head — 
we won going away.” Henry swept a hand across his 
eyes. “It wasn’t until he had come to a stop that he 
suddenly trembled, staggered, vainly attempted to 
keep his feet, then fell to the ground dead. The doc- 
tors never knew what actually killed him — finally 
said that it was a blood clot or something like that. I 
never knew what to believe. The only thing that 
mattered was that Chang was gone — ^but the record 
he set that day still holds down there, the fastest 
ever run on any track.” 

Henry stopped and his gaze turned to the Black. 
“And I never thought I would see a horse that could 
break that record — ^until now,” he said. The Black’s 
long neck stretched far over his stall door. He shook 
his head and whinnied. 

Carefully Henry put the shirt back into the bundle 
and rose to his feet. He carried it over to the comer 
of the barn and placed it inside the trunk. Then he 
turned around and faced the boy. “There’s just one 
thing that stands in our way of putting the Black 
in a race, Alec,” 

150 



“You mean because he’s so wild, Henry?” 

“No, I don’t mean that. By spring we should have 
him calmed down a bit. But I read in the paper just 
now of how you got the Black. You didn’t tell me 
this morning.” 

“I was going to, Henry, but why does that stand 
in his way?” 

“Only that you don’t have any record of who his 
sire and dam were, and Alec, a horse must be a 
registered thoroughbred to run in a race.” 

Alec felt a sick feeling in his stomach — he hadn’t 
realized how much he had looked forward to seeing 
the Black run. “You mean, Henry, we have to find 
that out before we can put the Black on a track?” 

“ ’Fraid so, kid,” Henry answered. Alec could see 
that he was as disappointed as himself. “Isn’t there 
any way you could possibly get that information?” 
the little man asked. 

“I don’t see how, Henry. I know the name of the 
port in Arabia where he got on, but that’s all. Every* 
one on the ship was drowned, so there aren’t any 
records we could possibly get.” 

Henry thought a minute. Then he said, “I’ll drop 
a line to a friend of mine in the Jockey Club. Maybe 
he can help us — someway.” 



THE BLACK STALLIOK 

“Gee, Henry, I hope SO !” 

“We have all winter to try and find out,” Henry 
said. “Maybe they can trace him from the town or 
somethin’. He looks like too valuable a horse not to 
be registered somewhere!” He walked toward the 
door. “Have to be gettin’ back now or the Missus’ll 
be cornin’ down for me !” He stopped and put a hand 
in his pocket. He took out a piece of paper. “Wrote 
down what we need for the Black to eat, Alec,” he 
said. “After you get finished, you can go down to the 
feed store and get ’em. We can’t have the big boy eat- 
ing all of Napoleon’s grain, you know.” He paused 
and his hand went once again inside his pocket. 
“Seein’ that we’re goin’ to work together, it’s only 
fair that I share some of the expenses, Alec, so I 
want to pay for this.” 

“You don’t have to do that, Henry. Dad’s going 
to give me a regular allowance for the work I do 
around the house.” 

Henry smiled. “Sure,” he came back, “and we’re 
going to need all the money we can get— -it takes 
money to make a champion, y’know. And we can’t 
skimp on the Black’s food. That’s why we’re going 
to have to work together just like partners. C’mon 
152 


PARTNERS 


now, take this money and beat it down to the store." 
Henry shoved the money into the boy’s hand. 

Alec looked from the old jockey to the stallion. 
“O.K., partner,” he said, smiling. 

The next morning Alec went back to school. 
Whiff Sample and Bill Lee fell in beside him as he 
left the building at 12 : 3 o. 

“What’s all this about you bein’ in a shipwreck 
and everything?” Whiff asked excitedly. 

“Yeah, it was in the paper yesterday morning, and 
you even came home with a horse,” Bill finished. 

“It’s the truth,” Alec answered. “And if you don’t 
believe me, come on along and I’ll show him to you. 
I’m going over to the stable now.” 

“We sure will,” they answered together. 

When they reached the barn, Alec saw Henry. 
“Hello,” he yelled. 

“So you brought along some spectators, heh, 
Alec?” 

Whiff and Bill’s eyes were turned toward the field 
where the Black grazed in a comer, “Gee whiz,” 
they said. 

The Black raised his head when he heard Alec’s 

153 



?i! 

il '< 
( 


THE BLACK STALLION 

voice. His ears pricked forward and he whistled. 
Alec whistled back. Suddenly the horse broke to- 
ward them. Whiff and Bill hung back with Henry, as 
Alec walked toward the fence. 

The Black hesitated when he saw the newcomers. 
He screamed and trotted back down the field. Henry 
didn’t have to urge Whiff and Bill to move out of 
sight. They ran into the barn — their eyes wide with 
excitement. “Did you see him !” gasped Bill. 

“Boy, he’s the biggest horse I ever did see and 
what a mean look !” answered Whiff. They watched 
from the window of the barn. 

The Black broke into a long, loping gait and ran 
toward Alec, as he walked into the field. “Better get 
back, Alec,” yelled Henry. “If he doesn’t slow up, 
he’ll hit you.” 

The stallion thundered down upon the boy. Five 
yards away he swerved, barely missing him. He ran 
to the fence, turned and once again ran toward him. 
He swerved as he had done before. “Better get out of 
there, Alec,” Henry warned. 

“He just wants to play, Henry,” Alec yelled over 
his shoulder. “We did this all the time on the island ! 
It’s like a game of tag.” 

“Yeah,” Henry called, “some fun!” He watched 


PARTNERS 


a? Alec ran after the Black until he got him into a 
corner. The stallion reared and pawed the ground. 
He ran to one side, then to the other. Alec slowly ap- 
proached him, both hands spread apart. The Black 
snorted, his long mane falling over his eyes. Sud- 
denly Alec ran toward him. The stallion whirled 
and broke for the side. Alec reached out and slapped 
him on the hind quarters. The Black ran to the center 
of the field, then turned and looked back, shaking 
his head. 

“What a pair !” Henry said to himself. 

The stallion charged back at the boy, again swerv- 
ing when he was almost on top of him. For ten 
minutes Henry watched the strangest game he had 
ever witnessed. And slowly he began to understand 
the strange understanding that had grown between 
this wild stallion and the boy. 

A few minutes later Alec came up to him. His 
shirt was wet with sweat and his blue eyes glistened 
with excitement. “Do you see, Henry,” he exclaimed, 
“he just wanted to play ! Look at him, Henry — did 
you ever see anything so grand in all your life?” 

The Black had broken into a gallop and was run- 
ning around the field. His mane flew back in the 
wind, and as he neared them his powerful strides 

155 



THE BLACK STALLION 

shook the ground. He swept past. Henry didn’t say 
anything until the stallion had come to a stop at the 
other end of the field, had whirled and looked back 
at them. Henry’s own eyes were bright, too. “No,” 
he said, “I’ve never seen anything like him— not 
even Chang.” 

“I wrote to my friend in the Jockey Club,” he 
continued, after a moment’s silence. “I explained the 
situation and asked if there wasn’t some way we could 
check up on the Black’s parentage. He’s a thorough- 
bred if I’m any judge, and should be registered 
somewhere.” 

“How long before he’ll answer you, Henry?” 

“Should be sometime this week, telling us what 
to do, anyway.” 

“I hope so,” Alec said. “It can’t be too soon for 
me. 

“Me, either. ... Guess we’d better bring him in 
now; he’s been out long enough. Then we’ll make the 
fence a little higher in spots, so we won’t be chasing 
him through the park like we did yesterday.” 

The boy whistled and the Black came running to- 
ward him. Alec grabbed him by the halter and 
rubbed his nose. He was leading him toward the bam 
when he heard someone shout, “Hey, Alec, keep 
156 


PARTNERS 


away ! Don’t bring him in here! We’re here!” The 
stallion snorted. 

“What do you know, Henry, I forgot all about 
Whiff and Bill,” Alec said. “They’re still in the 
barn. . . . Come on out, fellows. I’ll hold the Black 
here.” 

The two boys came out, a little sheepishly. 

“Guess we’d better get home to lunch,” Whiff 
said. They hurried down the driveway as the stallion 
screamed softly. 

“Guess they believe me now,” Alec said, grinning. 

After dinner that same night, Alec went back to 
the barn. Tony had already stabled old Napoleon 
for the night. Alec saw him shove his white nose 
over into the Black’s stall to steal some of his oats. 
The Black playfully nipped him, and Napoleon 
quickly withdrew his head. Alec couldn’t get over the 
fancy the Black had taken to Napoleon. He wasn’t 
afraid to leave him alone now, for as long as the old, 
gray horse was around, the stallion was quiet. A 
little later Alec bedded the Black’s stall, turned out 
the lights and went home. 

Days passed into weeks, weeks into months. And 
Alec’s life, from the moment his alarm awakened 

^7 



THEBLACKST ALLION 

him at five o’clock every morning until he closed his 
books at night, became as regular as a time clock. 
Always in the morning before school, he would feed, 
groom and ride the Black around the field. If the 
weather was nice, he would leave him outside, know- 
ing Henry would be around to watch him. He didn t 
have time for games after school with the fellows 
any more. He had too many things to do. He would 
rush home at 12 : 30 , as soon as his last class was over, 
eat lunch and then once again go to the stables where 
Henry was usually waiting for him. 

Henry had received an answer from his friend in 
the Jockey Club, giving him the address of their 
European office. “It’s very doubtful whether they 
can help you, though,” he wrote, “as you have so 
little information to work on. However, I m sure 
that they will do their best.” 

Henry wrote to them. “Now all we can do is wait 
and hope,” he told Alec. “It will take a long time. 
That isn’t going to stop us from training the Black, 
though. I want to put a watch on that fella even if 
we aren’t ever able to put him in a race !” 

They hadn’t attempted to put saddle or bridle on 
the Black yet. Henry wanted to wait until spring. 
The weather became cold and the ground hard. 

158 



PARTNERS 


“Our real work begins in the spring,” Henry told 
Alec. “Now we’ll just take it easy!” Under Henry’s 
expert tutelage, Alec’s riding skill became greater 
and greater until Henry nodded with approval. “A 
grand combination,” he said to himself as he watched 
the boy ride high on the stallion’s neck as he galloped 
down the field. 

After the workouts, Alec would usually spend the 
rest of the afternoon doing the odd jobs around home 
which his father gave him. “Have to earn your al- 
lowance,” his father said. 

He had found plenty of things for him to do, too. 
Alec never had known there was so much to be done 
around a house — and his father hadn’t missed up on 
a thing. The front and back porch gleamed with new 
paint. The garage doors now opened easily and 
stayed open. The cellar shone with cleanliness. And 
Alec never knew so many leaves could fall from 
trees. One day he would rake up and burn hundreds 
of them; the next day the yard would be covered 
again. Then with the coming of cold weather, there 
was the fire to be kept going and the ashes to be 
hauled out into the street. Luckily enough, even 
though it was now January, snow hadn’t fallen and 
the walks didn’t have to be shoveled. 


159 




THE BLACK STALLION 

There was still no news about the Black’s parent- 
age. 

“I’m afraid it’s no use, Henry,” Alec told him. 

“Don’t give up yet, son,” Henry replied, but Alec 
could tell that he, too, had very little hope. 

One afternoon, Alec walked toward the barn. The 
sky was overcast and the air cold. “Have to take it 
easy with him today,” he thought. He pulled open 
the barn door. Henry sat in his favorite chair, tipped 
perilously back on two legs against the wall. He was 
slowly puffing his pipe, looking at the Black, who 
was moving restlessly in his stall. 

Henry turned as the boy closed the door. “Hello, 
Alec,” he said. 

“Hello, Henry. What’s the matter with the 
Black?” 

“He’s all right,” replied Henry. “Kept him in all 
morning, though, and he’s pretty fidgety. The 
ground’s pretty hard, and I didn’t want him out 
there by himself. He’ll feel better after you’ve given 
him a few turns around the field. Do your best to 
hold him down.” 

The stallion snorted and reached his head out 
toward Alec. Alec went over and placed a hand on 
160 


PARTNERS 


his nose. “Hello, fella,” he said. “Want to get some 
air, don’t you"?” The stallion shook his head. 

“How’s everything at school ?” Henry asked. 

“Managing all right, Henry. Made up most of 
my work, and things seem to be working out better 
than ever before. Guess it must be the regular hours,” 
he laughed. 

“Yep,” said Henry. “Keep it up, Alec, and we’ll 
show your folks that you can raise a champion race 
horse and get good marks at the same time !” Henry 
stopped and raised a lighted match to his pipe. He 
puffed for a few seconds, the smoke curling up to- 
ward the ceiling. 

Alec looked out the window. “Henry,” he ex- 
claimed, “look, it’s snowing!” 

The front legs of Henry’s chair came down with a 
bang. He went to the window beside Alec. “Sure 
enough it is,” he said. They watched the snow fall 
heavier and heavier. “Well, it’s about time, anyway. 
Never seen it hang off so long before,” he said. 

“Yeah,” said Alec glumly, “and I can just see 
myself shoveling tons of it off the walk !” 

A regular blizzard started raging outside. “Sure 
is coming down,” said Henry. 

l6i 



THE BLACK STALLION 

The Black was watching the snow, too. His eyes 
were wide with wonder, his ears pitched forward. 
“Henry,” said Alec, “look at the Black. This is the 
first time he’s seen snow !” 

“That’s right!” exclaimed Henry. “They don’t 
have any where he comes from !” 

“Wonder how he’s going to react to itT’ 

“Shouldn’t bother him any,” answered Henry. 
The Black pawed on the floor of his stall. 

“Seems pretty nervous,” Alec said. 

“Yep, but that’s because he hasn’t been out,” re- 
plied Henry thoughtfully. 

For the next half hour, Henry and Alec watched 
the falling snow. “Seems to be stopping now,” said 
Alec. 

A few minutes later the sun broke out of the 
clouds. “Certainly is beautiful out there now,” said 
Henry as he and Alec watched the sun’s rays glisten 
on the white snow. 

The boy turned toward the Black. “Do you think 
we dare take him out, Henry?” he asked. 

Henry looked at the stallion, who was still pacing 
his stall. “He sure needs the air, Alec. It’s hard to 
keep a horse of his nature penned up, even for a day. 
Do you think you could manage him?” 

162 


P ARTN ER S 


Alec smiled. “Fm not afraid of anything with the 
Black, Henry — ^you know that,” he answered. 

Henry grinned. “O.K., let’s get him out!” he said 
as he walked toward the stall. 

As soon as Henry opened the stall door, the Black 
pushed his way out. Alec grabbed hold of his halter. 
“Whoa, Boy,” he said. 

Henry moved toward the barn door. “Better lead 
him around awhile until he gets used to it,” he said 
as he pulled back on the door. The Black shied and 
Alec took a firmer grip on the halter. Cautiously he 
led the stallion out of the bam. 

The air was cold and still. The Black’s hooves 
sank into the snow. He moved gingerly around the 
boy, never letting his feet remain more than a frac< 
tion of a second in the same spot. The snow flew in 
all directions. Slowly Alec led the Black around the 
yard in front of the barn. The stallion kept shaking 
his head, and his breath shot from his nostrils, send- 
ing two streams of thick vapor into the air. 

Alec attached the lead rope to the halter, giving 
him more room to mn around. The stallion made a 
ciicle around him. Suddenly he stopped — cautiously 
he lowered himself to the ground and then rolled 
over on his back. His legs waved above him. 



163 



THE BLACK STALLIOK 

“Look at him !” Alec shouted to Henry. “He loves 
it!” 

After a few minutes, the Black climbed to his 
feet. Alec took him by the halter. “How’d you like 
it, fella?” he asked. The stallion shook his head. 
Alec laughed and brushed the snow off his back. 
“O.K. to get on him now, Henry?” he asked. 

“Sure,” answered Henry. He walked over beside 
the Black, put his hands together. Alec stepped into 
them and mounted the stallion. 

“Remember, take it easy as you can,” cautioned 
Henry, as Alec guided the Black into the field. He 
went at a fast walk, his legs sinking deeper and 
deeper into the snow. 

Alec reached down and patted the Black’s neck. 
“How do you like this, fella?” he asked again. The 
Black swerved a little and broke into a slow trot. 
Alec let him go and then drew him up into a walk 
again. “Take it easy, Boy,” he said. 

Now Alec let the Black go where he wanted to. 
He knew the stallion was enjoying the snow. He 
headed down into the hollow at the lower end of the 
field. The snow was a little deeper there. The stallion 
stepped high and once he rose a little on his hind legs. 
Alec guided him out of the hollow. The Black broke 
164 


into a canter and Alec let him go, but kept a firm 
hand on the halter. The cold wind blew in his face 
and the snow went flying. When they reached the 
end of the field, he pulled the stallion up. 

After an hour of riding, he saw Henry wave him 
in. He turned the Black toward the bam. “He liked 
the snow,” he said when he came up to Henry. 

“Sure looked that way,” grinned Henry. “Wasn’t 
as bad as I thought he’d be !” 

Alec dismounted. “He’s acting more like a gentle- 
man every day,” he said. 

“Yep,” said Henry, “and when spring rolls around 
he should be all ready for us to go to work on him.” 

“Spring,” repeated Alec. “It isn’t far away, 
Henry — ^just a few short months.” 

The man and boy looked at each other — ^both 
thinking of the same thing. Henry’s gaze shifted to 
the Black. “Maybe aroxmd the first of April, if all 
goes well,” he said. 



rammg oegms 


leg’s feet scraped beneath his desk. He fidg- 
yLJk ctcd with the pencil in his hand. The paper 
JL jLin front of him was blank. He couldn’t 
think about Geometry at a time like this. His eyes 
again went to the clock on the side of the wall — 
12 :15. Another fifteen minutes and he’d be on his 
way ! His gaze shifted to the huge calendar hanging 
over the blackboard — ^April first ! He had waited so 
long for that date, and now it was here. Today, after 
months of preparation, they were to break the Black 
to bridle and saddle, start the real training of the 
Black, even though no word had yet reached them 
from Europe concerning the stallion’s parentage. 
Henry had written two more letters in the last few 
months. 

166 


TRAINING' BEGINS 


Alec saw the teacher looking at him, so his gaze 
dropped to the paper in front of him. The minutes 
crept by as slow as all the months of waiting. He 
couldn’t stand this much longer — ^he’d just have to 

go! 

Suddenly the bell rang, and like a sprinter off on 
his marks, Alec leaped for the door. He had it opened 
and was out in the corridor, before the rest of the 
class had started to move. He ran down the hall, 
heard an authoritative voice tell him to stop, but 
kept running. Nor did he stop when he reached the 
street. He ran xmtil he was too tired to go farther, 
then slowed down to a fast walk. 

He rushed into the house and threw his books on 
the couch. His mother had lunch ready. He sat down 
to eat, but he was too excited. He looked up at his 
mother. “I’m sorry. Mom, but I’m not hungry to- 
day,” he said. His mother looked at him. She saw the 
high flush of excitement on his face. 

“Something important going on^” she asked. 

“Kinda, Mom,” Alec answered as he finished a 
glass of milk. “I won’t be home until dinner. I’ll 
make up for my lunch then!” He ran out of the 
house. His mother stood in the doorway and watched 
him as he tore down the street. 


167 



THE BLACK STALLION 

Alec found Henry nervously pacing up and down 
in front of the bam. “Hello, Henry!” he called. 

“Hello, son,” Henry replied, taking the pipe from 
his mouth. “Nice warm day for it.” He looked up 
at the sun high overhead. 

Akc saw the stallion out in the field. “How does 
he feel today?” 

“He’s been pretty frisky all morning. Guess the 
warm weather is making him feel pretty good, too.” 
answered Henry. 

They watched the Black for a few minutes. Then 
Henry said, “Well, son, we might as well get 
started. Feel O.K.?” 

“Sure, what’s the difference riding the Black with 
a saddle or without one?” 

Henry knocked the ashes from his pipe. “All de- 
pends on the horse, but let’s get going. I picked up 
a heavy saddle over at a second-hand store in New 
York yesterday. It isn’t so good, but it’ll do the 
trick until we get him on a track and can use the light 
one.” Henry walked toward the bam. 

Alec whistled. The Black raised his head and 
came trotting up to him. “Hello, fella.” Alec put his 
hand on the stallion’s neck. 

The Black shoved his nose into Alec’s side pocket. 
168 



TRAINING BEGINS 


Alec playfully shoved him away and pulled a couple 
of lumps of sugar out of his pocket. 

“Want some sugar, heh. Boy*?” 

The stallion swept his long, pink tongue over 
Alec’s hand and the sugar disappeared. 

Henry came toward them carrying the bridle and 
saddle. “Let’s get over in the middle of the field 
where you’ll have plenty of room.” 

“O.K.,” answered Alec. The Black trotted beside 
Alec. When they came to the center, Henry placed 
the bridle and saddle on the ground. “We’ll try th^ 
saddle first,” he said. “No telling what’s going to 
happen.” 

Alec stood at the Black’s head, a firm grip on the 
halter. Henry took the saddle in his arms and went 
around to the left side of the stallion. Alec saw the 
Black’s eyes turn toward Henry. He sensed some- 
thing was up and moved uneasily. Alec stroked him 
and spoke in his ear. 

Henry said, “Hold him now, son.” 

Alec gripped the halter tighter. Henry raised the 
saddle over the Black’s back and gently placed it on 
the stallion. He never got the chance to grasp the 
cinch. The stallion’s hind quarters rose in the air and 
the saddle went flying. He turned nervously in a 

169 



•rHE BLACK STALLION 

circle, and Alec had his hands full trying to hang 
onto him. Henry picked up the saddle and once again 
approached the Black. “This isn’t going to be easy,” 
he said, between clenched teeth. “Hold him again, 
Alec!” 

Once again Henry placed the saddle on the stal- 
lion and once again it went flying in the air. “Doesn’t 
give me a chance to tighten the cinch,” he said as he 
picked it up. 

Fifteen minutes passed and they still hadn’t suc- 
ceeded in getting the saddle on the Black. Henry and 
Alec were both tired. Yet the stallion wasn’t as ex- 
cited as Alec had expected him to be. “He’s just be- 
ing contrary,” he told Henry. 

The Black wouldn’t leave the saddle on his back 
long enough for Henry to get the cinch straps 
through the buckles. “If I could only some way get 
’em through and tighten that saddle on him!” he 
said. 

Alec thought a minute. “Maybe we could do this, 
Henry,” he said. “Get a couple pieces of that strong 
cord out of the bam and attach each one to the cinch 
straps. Then I’ll hold the saddle over him but not on 
him, and you can draw the cord through the buckles 
as far as you can. Then when you say the word I 
170 - ^ • ' v ■ 



TRAINING BEGINS 


can put the saddle down and at the same time you 
draw the straps through the buckles. You’ll have to 
work fast. ...” 

“Might work,” said Henry. “And anything’s 
worth trying now.” He went to the barn and came 
back with the cord. For a few minutes he busied him- 
self with the cord and straps. “O.K.,” he finally said. 

Alec moved more to the side of the stallion; he 
patted his neck, then reached for the saddle which 
Henry gave him. He held it just above the Black. 
The straps and cord fell on the right side of the stab 
lion. Out of the comer of his eye Alec saw Henry 
drawing the cord underneath the Black and pulling 
it through the buckles. The Black moved nervously 
around. “Whoa, Boy,” Alec said. He lowered the 
saddle as close to the stallion’s back as possible, so 
Henry could get the straps as near into the buckles' 
as he could. 

“All set, Henry?” Alec asked. 

“Just a second,” came the answer. 

The Black was looking toward the far end of the 
field. Henry said in a low voice, “O.K., now.” 

Quickly Alec placed the saddle on the Black’s 
back. The stallion reared. Alec jumped to one side. 
Henry was dangerously close to the Black, his hands 



THE BLACK STALLION 

feverishly pulling the straps through the buckles. 
Alec saw him give a final tug, then he flung himself 
out of the way of the Black’s pawing hooves. “Got 
it,” he shouted. “Get out of his way!” 

The stallion reared again and then raced down the 
field, swerving and throwing his hind legs in the air. 
He tried desperately to get rid of the saddle. Alec 
and Henry watched him as he plunged around the 
field. Suddenly the Black reared high on his legs and 
then fell over backward. They heard the saddle 
break. 

“There it goes,” said Alec. 

“If he doesn’t get it off, it’ll be worth it !” an- 
swered Henry, 

The Black finally climbed to his feet. The saddle 
was torn and broken, but still on his back. Again the 
stallion raced up the field, his excited eyes shifting 
from one side to the other. As he neared them, Alec 
whistled. The stallion swept past them. Alec 
whistled again. Suddenly the Black stopped, half- 
reared and turned. His ears pricked forward and he 
stood still for a few seconds. Then he was off again 
down the field, swerving and kicking. 

“It’s a good thing you were able to get that cinch 
tight, Henry!” 

rp. 


TRAINING BEGINS 


“Yeah,” answered Henry, his eyes still following 
the Black. 

Alec whistled again when the stallion came up the 
field. The Black stopped about thirty feet from them. 
Alec cautiously walked toward him. 

“What’s the matter, fella? Frightened of that sad* 
die on your back ?” 

The stallion turned and Alec thought he was going 
to run down the field again. Instead he circled and 
then stood still. Alec put his hand in his pocket and 
drew out some sugar. He held it out toward the 
Black. “Here, Boy.” Slowly he walked up to him 
and gave him the sugar. He stroked the long, sleek 
neck. “You’ll get used to it, fella.” He saw that the 
saddle was pretty well damaged but still usable. 

“Walk him around a few minutes, Alec,” Henry 
shouted. 

Alec took the Black by the halter and started 
down the field. The stallion stepped lightly along, 
every once in awhile throwing his hind legs in the air. 
Ten minutes later Alec led him back to Henry. 
“He isn’t so bad now,” he said. 

“Hop on him then, and let’s see what happens.” 

“O.K.,” answered Alec, moving toward the left 
side of the stallion. 



,:PXULTL>/i^ 


m 


THE BLACK STALLION 

Henry gave the boy a boost and he landed in the 
saddle. A fraction of a second later he found himself 
flying through the air. The ground rushed up at him. 
Alec managed to draw his feet up under him and 
broke his fall. He lay still a moment, his body ach- 
ing. Henry rushed over and knelt down beside him. 
'‘Hurt, son'?” he asked anxiously. 

“Guess not, Henry. Just a little jarred.” 

Henry ran his fingers over Alec’s legs. “Try get- 
ting to your feet,” he said. Alec pulled himself up. 
He was unsteady for a moment, and then his head 
began to clear. He saw the Black a few feet away. 
The stallion looked at him and then came forward. 
He pushed his nose into Alec’s side pocket. “Seems 
just like old times on the island,” Alec said. He 
turned to Henry. “Why the devil, Henry, does he 
throw me just because he has a saddle on his back?” 

“Guess it’s just one of those things, Alec. You 
never know how a horse like this is going to act!” 
Henry answered. “He isn’t used to the saddle yet, 
and I don’t think he hardly knew you were on his 
back; all he could feel was that extra weight. Now 
this time talk to him like you always have before, 
let him know you’re getting on — ^guess we sort of 
174 


TRAINING BEGINS 


sneaked up on him then. Let him feel your arms and 
legs.” 

“O.K., Henry.” Alec once again went to the 
Black’s left side. 

“Sure you feel all right?” Henry asked. “Want 
to wait a few minutes?” 

“No,” replied Alec. He looked at the stallion and 
held the halter with his two hands. “Now listen, 
fella, take it easy !” The stallion shook his head, al- 
most taking Alec off of his feet. 

Alec stepped into Henry’s outstretched hands. He 
kept talking into the Black’s ear, and his hand ran 
up and down the stallion’s neck. Then he was in the 
saddle! The Black reared, but this time Alec was 
prepared. Up he went with the stallion high into the 
air, one hand grasping the Black’s mane, the other 
his halter. The stallion came down and bolted across 
the field. Alec leaned forward and kept talking to 
him. The stallion’s speed didn’t slacken, and Alec 
thought he was in for another ride like the one on 
the island. Suddenly he found that he was able to 
guide the stallion — ^he had control of him. He turned 
him away from the fence and up the field again. 
They swept past Henry, and Alec shouted “O.K. !” 

: 175 



THE BLACK STALLION 

The Stallion didn’t have room enough to run as fast 
as he wanted to, and after a short while, Alec man- 
aged to slow him down and brought him up to a stop 
near Henry. 

“Nice going, Alec,” Henry said, gripping the 
Black’s halter. “We’ll put the bridle on him right 
away.” 

“But don’t you think he’s kind of tired, Henry?” 

“That’s one of the reasons why I want to do it 
now,” Henry answered. “Besides, I don’t think he’s 
going to mind this as much as the saddle; it has a 
very light racing bit, and isn’t much more than the 
halter he’s got on now.” 

“You’re the boss, Henry,” Alec said. “How’ll we 
doit?” 

“You stay right on his back. I’ll get his mouth 
open, and then you can draw the bridle right over 
his head.” 

“O.K.,” Alec said, as Henry moved in front of 
the Black. 

Henry’s experienced hands had the bit into the 
Black’s mouth within a few minutes. Alec quickly 
drew it over the stallion’s ears and pushed the strap 
through the buckle. The Black shook his head and 
moved uneasily around in a circle. Alec let him 
176 


TRAINING BEGINS 


alone. For fifteen minutes he let the Black get used 
to the bit, then he guided him down the field. Care- 
fully, and in much the same manner as he had done 
back on the island, Alec taught the Black to turn 
right and left by a slight touch of the rein on his 
neck. There wasn’t much difference between Alec’s 
old way and the use of the reins, and the Black 
caught on quickly. 

Alec rode back to Henry and dismounted. Henry 
smiled. “That, Alec,” he said, “is what I call a good 
day’s work.” 

“Sure is, Henry.” Alec rubbed the Black’s nose. 
“Nice going. Boy,” he said proudly. 

The sun was sinking behind Manhattan’s skyv 
scrapers in the distance as the man, the boy and the 
horse made their way back toward the bam. 


177 



i3 

TLigkt ri de 


Alec glanced at his wrist watch as he hur- 

ZaA ried away from the still-dark house where 
JL JLhis mother and dad were sleeping. One 
o’clock. It was two weeks since they had broken the 
Black in to the bridle and saddle. The full moon 
was high overhead ; the stars were out; a warm spring 
breeze blew against his face. Henry would be wait- 
ing. 

He reached the gate and let himself in. The truck 
Henry had borrowed was standing beside the bam. 
Henry was leaning against it. 

“Everything all set, Henry?” Alec whispered. 

“All set,” came the quiet answer. He opened the 
barn door carefully, not to make any noise. “Don’t 
178 ; : 



NIGHT RIDE 


put on the light,” he said over his shoulder, as Alec 
followed him inside. 

The Black neighed when he heard them. Old Na- 
poleon stuck his head out of his stall and neighed, 
too. 

“Shhhh,” said Alec and Henry together. 

“Get over there and quiet them,” Henry said, “I’ll 
get the stuff.” 

Alec put a hand on each of their noses. “Take it 
easy, boys,” he said. “We don’t want to wake any- 
one up, you know.” 

The horses recognized him now in the moonlight. 
The Black tossed his head gently; Napoleon 
wrapped his long tongue around the boy’s hand. 

Henry returned, carrying the bridle and saddle. 
“O.K.,” he said. “Bring him out.” 

Alec led the Black out of his stall, without re- 
moving his blanket. The stallion stepped skittishly, 
his hooves shaking the barn floor. 

“Gee whiz, Alec,” Henry cautioned, “try to get 
him to stand still! He’s going to wake the Missus 
sure as shootin’ !” 

“Fll try, Henry,” the boy answered. “He seems 
pretty nervous, though; guess he isn’t used to being 
awakened in the middle of the night!” The Black 

^ ^79 



T HE BLACKSTALLION 

looked back at Napoleon and whinnied as Alec led 
him toward the barn door. Then Henry closed the 
door behind them. 

Suddenly Napoleon neighed inside the barn — 
louder than either of them had ever heard him be- 
fore. 

“Jumpin’ Jehoshaphat !” said Henry, as he ran 
toward the barn. “We’ll never get out of here with- 
out waking someone up !” 

The Black raised his head high in the air, his ears 
pitched forward, and he answered Napoleon’s call. 
Alec looked, at him, then at the bam. 

“Henry,” he said. 

“Yeah.” 

“I’ve got an idea. Why not take Napoleon with 
us? The two of them can fit into the trucks — and I’ve 
a feeling it’ll make the Black a lot easier to handle, 
besides being a lot quieter.” 

Henry looked thoughtfully at the restless stallion. 
“O.K.,” he finally said. “It’s worth trying.” A min- 
ute later he led Napoleon toward the track. 

The Black neighed softly when he saw him, and 
Alec had no trouble getting him up the plank into 
the truck. Henry followed with Napoleon. “Now,” 
180 


NIGHT RIDE 


said Henry, “we not only have to get this moving 
van back to the guy I borrowed it from before six, 
but have to get Napoleon back to Tony as well!” 

“It’s only one-thirty now,” Alec said. 

“We have to be over there by two.” Henry 
climbed into the driver’s seat and Alec sat beside 
him. A minute later the truck was moving down the 
driveway. Only the sound of hooves came from the 
back of the van. 

Henry drove rapidly through the darkened streets, 
and half an hour later they pulled up in front of a 
high iron gate. He touched the horn lightly twice. 
Over the gate Alec made out the name BELMONT. 
A glimpse of white caught his eye. Two hands 
grasped the bars, and a head topped with snow-white 
hair peered through. 

“That you, Henry"?” an aged high-pitched voice 
asked. 

Henry leaned far out over the side of the car. 
“Yeah, Jake — ^it’s me,” he answered softly. “Every- 
thing O.K."?” 

“O.K.,” came the answer. 

Alec heard the rattle of keys, then the turning of 
the lock. A moment later the gate swang open. 

l8l 



THE BLACK STALLION 

Henry put the car in gear and drove through. The 
gate was closed behind them. Henry didn’t stop; he 
drove as if he knew his way around. 

“Who was that, Henry?” Alec asked. 

Henry kept his eyes on the graveled road in front 
of him, but Alec noticed a slight smile on his lips. 
“That’s Jake,” he answered. “We’ve been pals from 
way back. In fact,” he griimed, “Jake taught me to 
ride. I was just a kid who loved horses and wanted 
to ride, but I’d never even been on a horse. I used to 
go around and watch the early morning workouts, 
dreaming of the day when I’d be out there on some 
thoroughbred. Jake was a well-known jockey then— 
and I guess I sorta idolized him, but then all the 
kids did. Well, I guess Jake took me in hand just 
because he couldn’t get rid of me. Anyway, he taught 
me ’most everything I know^ — ^and if I’ve been a suc- 
cess, he’s the reason for it. Jake later went into 
training horses — and now he’s sorta, well — retired, 
I guess you could call it.” 

Henry paused as he carefully turned a corner. 
Then he continued, “Y’know, Alec, horses are kind 
of like the sea, you’ll find out— once you get used to 
’em and learn to love ’em, you can’t ever give them 
up. That’s Jake and that’s me. Jake’s only the watch- 
182 



NIGHT RIDE 


man around here now, but he loves it. There are 
horses training around here most of the year, and the 
track’ll be opening up pretty soon, so he’s content.” 
Henry brought the truck to a stop beside the track, 

“Are you sure no one’s around, Henry?” Alec 
asked. 

“Sure,” answered Henry. “There are only a few 
horses in training and Jake’s keeping an eye on them, 
so we practically have the place to ourselves.” 

Henry had pulled up beside an unloading ramp. 
They jumped out and went around to open the back 
doors. The horses whinnied as Alec climbed in bC'* 
side them. The stallion threw back his head and broke 
the rope tied to the truck. 

Alec grasped him by the halter, “Whoa, fella, 
take it easy,” he said. He backed the Black out onto 
the ramp and then down to the ground. 

Henry followed with Napoleon. “It’ll be a good 
thing to have Napoleon around where the Black can 
see him,” he said. “Now you’d better walk the Black 
up and down a few times to get the kinks out of his 
legs.” 

“O.K.,” Alec said. 

A few minutes later, when he walked the Black 
back toward the truck, he heard old Jake’s high- 



THE BLACKST ALLION 

pitched voice again and saw the little white-haired 
man talking to Henry. “Bejabers, Henry,” he was 
saying, “don’t tell me that imitation of a boss there 
is the champion that I’m riskin’ my job for !” 

Henry laughed. “Bejabers yourself, Jake,” he 
said. “Don’t jump to conclusions so fast. You haven’t 
seen this gray devil run yet.” 

“I’m too old a hand around here, my lad, for you 
to make me believe this crittur can do anything but 
go around that track in a walk — ^bejabers, I am,” 
Jake replied. 

Alec couldn’t help laughing. Jake heard him and 
turned. Then he saw the Black, and his mouth 
opened wide. Slowly he walked toward the stallion. 
The Black reared a little, but Alec quieted him 
down. Jake went around him, his eyes covering every 
inch of the Black. 

Henry came up. “Well, Jake,” he said, after a 
minute of silence, “what do you think of him*?” 

Jake looked up at him. “You sure were right, 
Henry. You’ve got a real horse here.” 

“Worth risking your job for?” Henry smiled. 

“Worth risking my job for,” the old man an- 
swered, nodding his head. “Haven’t seen a horse like 
him” — ^he continued — “since Chang.” 

184 



NIGHT RIDE 


“That’s just what I told Alec,” Henry said. He 
winked at Alec. “Jake,” he said, “meet the owner of 
this black stallion, Alec Ramsay — ^Alec, this is 
Jake.” 

Alec grasped the old man’s hand in a warm clasp, 
and was surprised at the strength in Jake’s fingers. 
“Glad to know you, son,” Jake said. 

“And I’m glad to know you, sir,” answered Alec. 
“It was awfully nice of you to let us in here. Henry 
and I certainly appreciate it.” 

“Glad to do it,” Jake replied. “Guess Henry 
knows my weakness. When he said you had a cham'' 
pion, I had to see for myself.” 

“You’ll never change, Jake,” Henry laughed. 

“ ’Fraid not.” The old man grinned. 

The Black tossed his head, and the night breeze 
blew his mane. “He’s ratin’ to go, Henry,” Alec 
said. 

“O.K., I’ll get the saddle.” Henry moved toward 
the truck. “Stick around, Jake,” he said over his 
shoulder, “and you’ll see the fastest thing on four 
legs.” 

“Don’t worry. I’m not a-goin’,” Jake answered. 
“Come on, son.” He turned to Alec. “We’ll take him 
down near the gate.” 

: 185 



THEBLACKSTALLION 

A few minutes later Henry came up and threw 
the saddle on the Black. The stallion pranced easily, 
then reared a little when Henry tightened the cinch. 
Alec and Jake put the bridle on him. 

“All set,” Henry said, when they had finished. He 
turned to Alec. “Now the idea tonight, kid,” he said, 
“is just to get him used to the track. Lucky there’s a 
full moon so it isn’t so dark out there, and I don’t 
think you’ll have much trouble seeing. Keep him 
under control as much as you can — try not to let him 
have his head until coming down the homestretch, 
then if everything is O.K., let him out for a few 
hundred yards. I’ve been waiting a long while for 
this! Before you start, walk him down a ways and 
back. Got it?” 

“Right,” answered Alec. 

Jake was leaning on the fence, his white head 
against the rail, his eyes on the stallion. He moved 
slightly and Alec saw the flash of silver in his hand. 
He knew Jake held a stop watch. 

Henry boosted Alec up on the Black’s back and 
adjusted the stirrups. His knees came up to his chin, 
and he squatted on the small racing saddle like a 
veteran. The stallion moved uneasily. Henry led 
him out on the track. 

186 



NIGHT RIDE 


“O.K., son,” he said. “Walk him down and back 
first.” 

The Black stepped quickly over the soft dirt, his 
head high, his eyes shifting from side to side. Alec 
reached over and patted his neck. “Take it easy, 
fella,” he murmured. The stallion wanted to run and 
Alec had his hands full keeping him to a walk. He 
went to the first turn and then came back. The night 
was warm, and as as they approached Henry, Alec 
pulled off his sweater. “Save this till I come back.” 
He tossed it to Henry, and walked the Black a few 
yards past them. 

“Here goes,” he said as he whirled the Black 
around. 

The stallion reared. The boy clung to his neck, his 
white shirt standing out vividly against the Black’s 
body. Then the stallion bolted forward. Alec tight- 
ened the reins and held him in. Down the track they 
streaked, the stallion’s giant strides swallowing up 
the yards. Alec, high in his stirrups, hung low beside 
the Black’s neck. The wind blew in his face and tears 
streamed down his cheeks. They swung around the 
first turn and into the backstretch. Alec kept him 
close to the white fence. He still held the Black in, 

, : 187 




but never before had he gone so fast, except on the 
island. 

The stallion loved it and fought for his head. Alec 
tried frantically to hold him but, halfway down the 
backstretch, he got the bit in his teeth and ripped 
the reins out of the boy’s control. Once again he was 
wild and free, Alec pulled on the slackened reins 
with all his might, but the Black ran faster and 
faster. Alec couldn’t see any more. The wind 
whipped him like a gale, slashing his shirt to ribbons. 


NIGHT RIDE 


As they rounded the far turn, the boy swayed in 
the saddle. Instinctively he clutched the Black’s long 
mane and hung on for dear life. The stallion thun- 
dered into the homestretch. His legs were pounding 
the turf. They flashed past Henry and Jake, and then 
around the first turn they went again and once more 
into the backstretch. 

Alec was almost unconscious. He tried to think. 
He had to stop the Black. He pulled desperately on 
the reins, but they swept past Henry faster than be- 
fore. The stallion was once again on his own, run- 
ning as he had been born to run. 

It wasn’t until they were halfway down the back- 
stretch again that Alec felt the Black slow up just 
a little. Alec spoke into his ear; he loosened one hand 
from the mane and rubbed the stallion’s neck. From 
then on his speed lessened gradually and, when they 
whipped by Henry for the third time, Alec had him 
almost under control. He managed to slow him down 
after the first turn, and in the backstretch, Alec at 
last brought him to a stop. 

He turned him around. The Black whistled and 
shook his head. He was breathing heavily, and a 
white lather covered his black body. He stepped 
lightly down the track toward Henry. A few min - 

189 



THE BLACK STALLION 

utes later Henry and Jake ran up to them, and Alec 
weakly climbed from the saddle. Henry took the 
reins — they were sticky and wet with blood. He 
looked at Alec’s bleeding hands, then gave the reins 
to Jake and put an arm around the boy to steady him. 
“Take it easy, son,” he said. 

“Fm all right, Henry,” Alec said. “Just a little 
dazed.” 

“After that ride you should be,” Henry said. 

“No one will ever be able to control this horse,” 
Jake said. “Once he gets his head — only thing to do 
is what y’did, hang on and wait until he tires.” 

“I’ll control him — one of these days,” Alec said 
determinedly. He felt better now; strength was re- 
turning to his body and the earth was beginning to 
stand still. The stallion turned his head toward him, 
his ears pricked forward and he neighed softly. He 
shoved his nose against the boy. 

Alec put a hand wrapped in a handkerchief against 
the soft muzzle. “You can’t blame him, Henry,” he 
said. “It’s the first real fun he’s had in a long, long 
time. I’ve just got to learn to stay on his back and 
enjoy the ride with him, that’s all !” 

“Yeah,” said Jake, “that’s all.” 

190 


NIGHT RIDE 


They walked ofiE the track, Alec leading the Black. 
No one spoke again until they reached the truck. 
Napoleon stood there tied to the side. He raised his 
old, gray head curiously. Alec led the Black up to 
him and they put their heads together, the stallion 
obligingly lowering his. 

Henry turned to Jake. “Guess you’ll have to admit 
there isn’t a horse in the country that can come close 
to him,” he said. 

Jake glanced down at the watch in his hand. 
“No,” he answered. “No, I’ve never heard of any 
horse doing the time he did tonight. War Raider and 
Cyclone would give him a race, but he’d beat them 
— if he ran.” 

“What do you mean — ^if he ran?” asked Henry. 

Jake nodded toward the Black. “If he ever got on 
the same track with those horses, there’d never be 
any race. That horse would want to fight — ^not run. 
He’s as wild as they come. Where’d you get him, 
son ?” he asked. 

Alec looked at Henry, who nodded. Alec told 
Jake briefly how he had acquired the Black. 

When he had finished, Jake said, “Quite a story, 
son.” Then he turned to Henry. “How do you know 

191 

■ V - 



THE BLACK STALLION 

he’s a thoroughbred*?” he asked. “You know as well 
as I do he can’t run in any of the race meetings with- 
out bein’ registered.” 

“Yeah, I know,” Henry answered. “We’re hoping 
he’s listed in the Arabian Stud Book. I’ve been writ- 
ing to them but they haven’t answered — ^guess they 
can’t find anything!” 

Jake looked at the Black. “That horse was bom 
wild, Henry, if I’m any judge — ^you’ll never find 
him registered.” 

“I’m afraid you’re ri^t, Jake,” Henry said, “but 
you never can tell, something might come up. We can 
race him against time and have him break a few 
records — then they’ll have to notice him !” 

Jake nodded. “Not a bad idea. Lots of people 
would give their right arm to see what I saw to- 
night!” 

Alec walked the Black up and down for awhile 
and then led him into the track beside Napoleon. 
After tieing the two horses securely, he jumped off 
the track and went around to where Henry and Jake 
were talking. Henry was saying, “We won’t be 
around tomorrow night — -give the boy a rest, but 
we’ll make it the following night. Be at the gate by 
two o’clock.” 


192 



NIGHT RIDE 


“O.K.,” Jake answered. 

Alec and Henry climbed into the front seat. Jake 
stood on the running board. Alec glanced at his 
watch. “Three-thirty,” he said, as the truck started 
to roll. “Hope my folks haven’t missed me.” 

“Yeah,” murmured Henry, “and I hope the Mis- 
sus hasn’t missed me or there’ll be plenty of explain- 
ing to do when I get home!” 

Jake laughed and stuck his white head in through 
thi. window. “So she’s still wearing the pants in the 
household, heh, Henry?” 

“No, ’tain’t that bad.” Henry turned a corner 
sharply. “It’s just that she’s had enough of horses, 
and she expects me to be through with ’em too !” 

“Then she still don’t know you, does she?” Jake 
grinned. “You’re like me, Henry,” he continued, “as 
long as there’s a breath left in your body, you’ll want 
to be around horses and nothing in this world will 
keep you from ’em.” 

There was silence until the truck rolled up to th? 
gate. Jake jumped off the rurming board and opened 
the gate. As it closed behind them, they waved good- 
bye to the old man. 

“Well, son, you had a tougher time than either of 
us expected, didn’t you ?” Henry asked. 


193 



THE BLACK STALLION 

“Guess SO, Henry,” Alec answered, “but I’ll be 
ready for him next time !” He relaxed in the seat and 
let his head fall back on the cushion behind him. 

“Tired?” Henry asked. 

“Kinda” — Alec tried to hide the weariness in his 
voice — “even in spite of that nap I took this after- 
noon. Mother couldn’t understand it — said it was 
the first time she’d seen me in bed during the after- 
noon since I was four!” 

“Guess you’ll have to keep doing that for a while, 
Alec. I’ve fixed it up with Jake to go over there about 
three nights a week. You see, we have to take ad- 
vantage of the time that we have now, before the 
track opens up for the season. There’ll be too many 
horses and people around then to risk going in. I 
don’t want to let anyone know about the Black until 
he races — that is, except Jake; we can trust him.” 

“If he does race,” Alec said soberly. “We 
should’ve had a letter by this time if he’s registered 
atall!” 

“Aw, you never can tell,” Henry answered. 
“They’re pretty slow over there, y’know, and then 
there’s probably a lot of things they have to look 
up.” 

“Yeah,” Alec agreed sleepily. He curled his legs 


194 



NIGHT RIDK 


underneath him. “Anyway,” he continued, “it’s 
pretty exciting just riding the Black like I did to- 
night on a track.” 

“Yeah, and I must say you and the Black did a 
pretty good job. Made the track record look like it 
was made by a hobbyhorse !” 

Fifteen minutes later they pulled up in front of 
the barn. Alec led the Black into his stall. Henry 
stabled Napoleon and then followed Alec into the 
Black’s stall. Together the boy and the man rubbed 
him down. 

A few minutes later they left the darkened barn. 

“Good night, Henry,” Alec said. “See you to- 
morrow.” ^ 

“ ’Night, Alec.” 

The Ramsay house was still dark. Alec opened the 
door carefully and climbed the stairs to his bedroom. 
All was quiet except for an occasional snore from 
his dad. 

Wearily he rmdressed and climbed into bed — ^his 
body aching. 

A few hours later the alarm clamored in his ear, 
Half-consciously he reached for it and turned it off, 
A sharp pain in his hand drove all the sleepiness from 



THE BLACK STALLION 

him. He sat up and looked at the blood-stained 
handkerchief still wrapped around his hand. He let 
his head fall back against the pillow. Then it hadn’t 
been a dream ! He had ridden the Black last night ! 
His eyes rested on the chair beside his bed where he 
had thrown his clothes. Hanging on the arm was his 
shirt — tom to ribbons. 

His body still ached all over as he threw the 
blankets off and climbed out of bed. Quickly he 
dressed and tucked the tattered shirt underneath his 
arm— he would throw it away before his mother saw 
it. He went into the bathroom, washed and took care 
of his cut hands. He clenched his teeth as he poured 
iodine on them — ^but his head was feverish with ex- 
citement, for once again life had regained the hi^ 
pitch he had grown to love ! 


196 



GqcL 


^clone an 


d Sun [Raider 


T wo NIGHTS later Alec once again rode the 
Black out on the track. The stallion tugged 
on the reins as Alec walked him. Henry and 
Jake leaned on the fence; Napoleon stood beside 
them, his eyes on the Black. 

Alec wore a tight, black sweater; heavy gloves 
covered his cut hands. He had his handkerchief tied 
around his head to keep the hair out of his eyes. The 
stallion half-reared and pulled on the rein& — ^he 
wanted to run! Alec hunched closer to the Black’s 
neck, his heart pounding, for he, too, wanted to feel 
the wind stream in his face again and feel the mighty 
stallion in action! 

Suddenly he let loose on the reins and the stallion 
bolted. He gained momentum in mighty leaps. 



THE BLACK STALLION 

Faster and faster he went until once again the land- 
scape became a blur, and only the endless line of 
white fence was there to guide them. Alec didn’t at- 
tempt to hold the stallion. “Run, you devil!” he 
yelled, but the tearing wind blew the words back 
down his throat. 

Around the track they whipped, and Henry and 
Jake both pushed the stems of their stop watches 
down as the Black streaked by. Eagerly they looked 
at the time and then at each other. “Never thought 
it possible,” Jake said. 

Their eyes turned again to the black blur round- 
ing the turn. “Look at that horse run!” exclaimed 
Jake. 

“Yeah — and look at that boy ride !” Henry 
shouted. 

Jake’s head rested on his hands against the fence. 
“I never knew a horse could have that much endur- 
ance, Henry,” he said. 

“Remember he’s an Arabian.” 

“Not all Arabian, though, Henry — too big, too 
much speed. The blood of a good many horses runs 
in his veins. Yep, and only his love for the boy keeps 
him on that track now.” 
ig8 


CYCLONE AND SUN RAIDEE 

High in the stirrups Alec hung close to the Black’s 
neck — it was like flying. Tears from the wind raced 
down his cheeks in an endless stream. Suddenly as 
they approached Henry and Jake, Alec saw the gray 
form of Napoleon lope out onto the track. They 
whipped by him. But the Black had seen Napoleon, 
too, and his speed slackened. 

Alec glanced over his shoulder and saw the old 
gray horse running toward them. Gradually the 
Black slowed down, and then without waiting for a 
signal from Alec, whirled and galloped back toward 
the plodding Napoleon. The old horse wheezed as 
they came up to him, but he held his head high. He 
reached his nose up to the Black’s, and then broke 
out into a trot and headed for the turn. The stallion 
whirled — three mighty leaps and he was up along- 
side of him. Napoleon took three steps to every one 
of the Black’s. Together they roxmded the turn. Na- 
poleon trotted ponderously, his eyes straight on the 
track ahead of him. The stallion shook his head and 
playfully nipped the gray horse. Three-quarters of 
the way around, Napoleon’s pace slackened to a very 
slow trot. 

When they reached Jake and Henry, Napoleon 

199 



THE BLACK STALLION 

was exhausted, but his eyes were wide with excite- 
ment. Alec jumped oif the stallion’s back. “Now 
we’ve got two racers,” he laughed. 

“Don’t know what got into him,” said Henry. 
“Just broke the rope and loped right out there when 
he saw the Black coming down !” 

Jake rubbed his hand over Napoleon’s body. 
“Guess he isn’t any the worse for it,” he said. 

Henry threw the blanket over the Black. “Tony’ll 
probably be wondering why he takes it so easy on his 
rounds tomorrow.” 

“He’ll have more pep than ever,” Alec laughed. 
“Tony will be lucky if he can hold him in!” 

Jake threw another blanket over Napoleon. 
“Here,” he said, “he earned this.” 

“Better walk ’em both down the track, son,” 
Henry said. 

Alec led the horses away. Napoleon raised his head 
as high as he could, imitating the Black. Carefully 
he raised his trembling legs higher and tried des- 
perately to rear in spite of Alec’s firm hand on his 
halter. 

Henry and Jake were standing in front of the 
truck when Alec returned with the two horses. The 
two men looked at the stallion. “I’d give a lot to be 
200 



CYCLONE AND SUN RAIDER 

able to spring him in a big race,” Henry said. “Boy, 
what a sight that’d be !” 

Alec looked at Henry. “We’re not going to give 
up hope yet, Henry, are we?” 

Henry’s eyes swept up to the stallion and then 
back to Alec. “No, sir, kid, they’re going to see this 
horse run if I have to stage a race myself !” 

Henry lit his pipe. In the glow of the lighted 
match, Alec saw determination written all over his 
face. His jowls rose and fell as he sucked in the pipe; 
the thick smoke rose in the air and then floated away 
on the warm, spring breeze. Henry lifted the pipe 
from his mouth and turned to Jake. “Got any sug- 
gestions on anything we could do, Jake?” 

The old man thought a minute. Then he said, “No, 
Henry. Guess the best thing to do is to race him 
against time some way and get people talkin’ about 
him. But first I’d wait for the answer to your letter.” 

The stallion’s ears pricked forward as a horse’s 
neigh reached them from one of the stalls in the dis- 
tance. Alec looked at the Black wistfully. “That’s 
the way I feel about it, too, Henry,” he said. “We’ll 
wait, but he belongs up with the best, and some way 
we’ve got to show everyone that he does, thorough- 
bred or no thoroughbred !” 


201 


THE BLACK STALLION 

Weeks passed, and Alec and Henry conscien- 
tiously trained the Black. Eagerly they awaited an 
answer to Henry’s last letter. The days passed and 
gradually they began to lose hope. Then one day it 
came. Henry rushed into the barn with the long, un- 
opened envelope in his hand. Alec was grooming the 
Black. 

“Alec,” he yelled excitedly, waving the letter. 
'Tt’s here!” Furiously his hands tore it open and the 
envelope fell to the floor. 

Alec saw his eyes fly over the letter and then dis- 
appointment appeared on his face. He handed the 
letter to Alec. It was short, only a few lines. Even 
then, Alec didn’t read all of it. The first sentence 
was enough. “There is no horse registered to fit the 
description you sent us. We made an extensive search 
, . .” Alec handed the letter back to Henry, who 
crumpled it up and threw it on the floor. 

In the days that followed, Alec showed his disap- 
pointment plainly. His night rides on the stallion 
were still as exciting as ever, but he longed to race 
the Black against the great race horses of the day — - 
horses like Sun Raider and Cyclone who were now 
making track history. 

He read every word the newspapers printed about 
202 



CYCLONE AND SUN RAIDER 

them, listened to every big race that was broadcast. 
Out in front fighting for top honors were the two 
greatest horses, experts said, that ever set foot dh 
any track — Sun Raider and Cyclone. Sun Raider, 
the champion of the West Coast, winner of the Santa 
Anita Handicap, the biggest, fastest horse in racing, 
the reports from the Coast said. Cyclone was the 
pride of the East, Kentucky born and bred, winner 
of the Derby, the Preakness, the Widener Futurity 
— ^no horse had ever pushed him to see what he could 
actually do. When that time came, his followers 
said. Cyclone’s speed would astound the racing 
world. 

Sports writers wrote long accounts of the two 
horses, prophesying what would happen if the two 
champions ever met. “If Sun Raider comes East, 
he’ll push Cyclone to a new world’s record,” Eastern 
reporters wrote. And the Western reporters retaliated 
— “If Sun Raider ever goes East, he’ll make Cyclone 
look like a mild summer breeze !” 

Race after race passed into turf history. Sun 
Raider and Cyclone were the names on every per- 
son’s lips. Men and women who had never seen a 
race argued over the merits of the two horses, and 
who would win, when and if they ever met. And all 

203 


THE BLACK STALLION 

the time Henry and Alec looked at the Black and 
smiled grimly, for they knew they had a horse that 
could beat them both ! 

One Saturday morning a few weeks later, Alec 
rushed up to the barn with a newspaper in his hand. 
The Black at the far end of the field heard him and 
galloped past Henry. “Hello, fella!” Alec greeted 
him, as the stallion thundered to a stop and shoved 
his nose against him. Then Alec handed Henry the 
newspaper. “Read Jim Neville’s column,” he said. 

Henry took the paper and turned to the famous 
sports reporter’s column. “It is needless to say,” he 
read, “that the greatest excitement in the sports 
world today is being caused by two of the fastest 
horses ever to set foot on any track, Cyclone and Sun 
Raider. Thousands of words have been written about 
these two champions during the last year, yes, and 
thousands of battles have been fought (off the track) 
as to just which one is the best. The irony of it all is 
that in most probability these horses will never meet. 
Mr. C. T. Volence, owner of Sun Raider, is not go- 
ing to send his horse East this summer for any of the 
races here, and Mr. E. L. Hurst, owner of Cyclone is 
not sending his horse West. It seems to me that both 
204 



CYCLONE AND SUN RAIDER 

Mr. Volence and Mr. Hurst are failing in their 
duties as true American sportsmen. For here is a 
race that the whole nation is clamoring for, and 
whatever personal reasons these two gentlemen have 
for not wanting to bring these two horses together 
should be cast aside for the good of American racing. 

“So I would like to suggest a match between Cy- 
clone and Sun Raider to be held in Chicago the 
middle of next month. I’m sending letters to each of 
the owners today. There are no big races at that time 
in which the horses are entered. Both horses will 
have the same distance to travel for the race, so 
neither will have any advantage over the other. 

“Once and for all the question of which horse is 
the fastest will be settled. . . 

Henry looked up from the paper. “It will be a 
great race if they let ’em run,” he said. 

The stallion stood quietly beside Alec, his big 
teeth cnmching on the sugar the boy had just given 
him. 

Two days later as Alec walked home from school, 
he passed a newsstand. The headline of a morning 
paper leaped up at him — cyclone and sun raideb 
TO RUN match race JUNE 26 ! he read. Eagerly he 



tHE BLACK STALLION 

bought a paper and turned to Jim Neville’s column. 

The owners of the two champions had accepted his 
proposal — the race was on! “Mr. Volence and Mr, 
Hurst even went me one better,” Jim Neville wrote. 
“They have offered to give over their share of the 
gate receipts to a worthwhile charity! I owe them 
both an apology, for they are true sportsmen in every 
sense of the word. ...” 

Alec couldn’t get home and through lunch fast 
enough to hear what Henry thought about it. When 
he reached the barn, he saw Henry already had a 
paper and was reading it. He looked up as Alec ap- 
proached. “Well, they’ve gone and done it!” he 
said. 

“Boy, and I’d give a lot to see it !” answered Alec. 

An open roadster turned into the driveway. 
■'Wonder who this is?” asked Henry. 

“It’s Joe Russo— haven’t seen him since he gave 
us that write-up the day we got home!” Alec ex- 
claimed as the car neared them. 

Joe jumped out. “Hello, Alec. Hello, Mr. Dailey. 
Was over this way covering a story and thought I’d 
drop in and see how you were doin’ with that wild 
stallion of yours.” 

206 



CYCLONE AND SUN RAIDER 

“He’s O.K. now.” Alec grinned proudly. 

“Still keeps us on our toes, though,” Henry said. 
“There he is out in the field now.” He pointed to 
the Black. 

Alec whistled. “I’ll give you a closeup of him, 
Joe,” he said. 

The stallion ran toward them. He reared when he 
saw Joe, and rushed down the field again. “Guess 
he’s forgotten me,” laughed Joe. 

Alec whistled again and the Black whirled and 
came back. Alec grabbed him by the halter. 

“Boy ! I knew I wasn’t seeing things that night — 
he sure is the biggest horse I’ve ever seen!” Joe 
whistled admiringly. 

“Fastest horse you’ve ever seen, too,” said Alec 
proudly. 

“Faster than Sun Raider and Cyclone,” kidded 
Joe. 

“Beat both of ’em,” Henry said. 

Joe laughed. “Say, you guys sound serious ! Here 
people all over the country are arguing about who’s 
the fastest horse in the country — Sun Raider or Cy- 
clone, and you say your horse can beat them both. 
Better not let anyone hear you say it !” 


207 



THE BLACK STALLION 

“It’s the truth, Joe,” Alec said. “We’ve been 
racing ” He stopped and looked at Henry. 

“It’s all right, Alec,” Henry said. “Guess it 
doesn’t make much difference now who we tell; we 
can’t race him, anyway.” 

Joe looked from Alec to Henry. “You mean to tell 
me you’ve been racing him?” 

“In a way,” Alec answered. “We’ve been taking 
him over to Belmont at night and giving him some 
workouts.” 

“And let me tell you, sir,” Henry broke in, “no 
horse ever ran around that track like this fellow did. 
We clocked him; there wasn’t any guesswork.” 

“You see,” Alec said, “we had planned to run 
him in some big races. I was going to ride — ^but we 
weren’t able to get his pedigree. We wrote to Arabia 
trying to get it, but it was impossible. We didn’t 
know much about him, only the port where he got 
on the boat. And you can’t run a horse in a race with- 
out him being a registered thoroughbred.” 

“Yeah, that’s right,” muttered Joe, “and while 
the Black looks like a thoroughbred, he is certainly 
too wild to have ever been brought up like one !” 

“I guess that just about washes us up as far as 
208 



CYCLONE AND SUN RAIDER 

racing goes, but we still know he’s the fastest horse 
around !” Henry said. 

Joe scratched his head. “You’re sure he’s as fast 
as you say he is?” Joe asked. 

“Sure, I’m sure,” replied Henry. “Why?” 

“Well, I know of one race that he wouldn’t need 
papers in.” 

“Some county fair?” laughed Henry. 

“No — the match race between Sun Raider and 
Cyclone !” 

“But that’s impossible,” Henry said. 

“Nothing is impossible these days,” Joe said. “But 
whether we could get him in or not, it wouldn’t be 
his lack of papers that would keep him out. You see, 
that’s a special match race — it isn’t held in any race 
meeting. It’s just like me racing you to see which 
one of us can run the fastest. They rent the track, 
bring the horses and away they go ! All you have to 
do is get the other owners to let you run the Black 
in the race !” 

“Yeah, that’s all,” Henry said, “and I still say 
it’s practically impossible !” 

“There’s a slim chance, though, Henry,” Alec 
said eagerly. 


209 



THE BLACK STALLION 

“You said it, kid,” grinned Joe, “and where there’s 
life there’s hope !” 

“How do you think we could work it, Joe'?” 
Henry asked. 

“I dunno — ^but you know I work on the same 
paper with Jim Neville, and he’s the guy that started 
all this; he might help us some way.” 

“Perhaps if you told him about the Black . . .” 
suggested Alec. 

“Maybe,” answered Joe. “He’s crazy about horses, 
and doesn’t think that there’s any horse in the world 
that can beat Cyclone, even Sun Raider. He’d prob- 
ably think I was nuts if I told him I knew of a horse 
that could beat ’em both.” He paused. “You’re 
sure that the Black can?” 

Henry smiled. ‘Y’eah, Joe, I’m sure,” he said, 
“but seeing that you’re kinda skeptical, why don’t 
you come over some night when we run him? Sure, 
and bring Jim Neville along, too; then he tw// have 
something to write about !” 

“Not a bad idea, Henry,” Joe answered. “I’ll gel 
in touch with Jim this afternoon. When you going 
to run the Black again?” 

“Tomorrow night,” Alec answered. 


210 



“If you can make it, you can meet us at the main 

gate at two o’clock,” Henry said. 

“Say, this is just like a mystery novel,” Joe said, 
as he walked toward his car. “But I’ll be there, and 
I have a feelin’ Jim will too! So long!” 

“So long,” Alec and Henry called. The stallion 
raised his head and whinnied as the car rolled down 
toward the gate* 


^5 

oflie mystery horse 


T he following night when Alec and Henry 
drove up to Belmont’s main gate, they saw 
Joe’s roadster parked there. Two men were 
inside, “That fellow with him must be Jim Neville,” 
Alec said hopefully. 

Henry brought the truck to a stop and lightly 
touched the horn. “Leave your car here,” he called 
softly to Joe. “Jump on the truck — we’ve only a 
short way to go.” 

The two men climbed out of the roadster and 
leaped on the truck’s running board. Henry put the 
car in gear as he saw Jake swing the gates open. Joe 
pushed his head in the open window near Henry. 
“Made it,” he grinned. Then he raised a finger to 


212 



THE MYSTERY HORSE 

his lips. “Shhh,” he hissed, “the mystery deepens. 
Where do we go from here?” 

“Hold tight, my friend. You’ll find out,” Henry 
said. 

Five minutes later they came to a stop beside the 
track. Henry gave the brake a hard jerk, then he and 
Alec climbed out. A tall, broad-shouldered man 
stood beside Joe; his hat was shoved back off his 
forehead and Alec saw long streaks of gray running 
through his black hair. Somehow Jim Neville looked 
just as Alec had imagined he would. Joe introduced 
them. 

After the introductions, Jim said, “Frankly,” and 
his eyes squinted quizzically, “it’s only the news- 
paper man in me that gets me out here tonight, be- 
cause as much faith as I have in my pal Joe here, 
I can’t imagine any horse in racing — today anyway 
— that can match strides with Cyclone or Sun 
Raider!” 

Henry smiled. “Sure,” he said, “I’d say the same 
thing if I hadn’t seen the Black run !” 

Jim Neville looked questioningly at Henry. “Say, 
you’re not by any chance the same Henry Dailey 
who rode Chang to victory in ail those races about 
twenty years ago, are you?” 


213 


THE BLACK STALLION 

“Sure he is !” Alec said proudly. 

Jim Neville pulled his hat down over his forehead, 
Alec could see that once again he was the reporter 
on the scent of a story. “And you believe,” Jim said 
seriously, “that you’ve got a horse here that can beat 
either Sun Raider or Cyclone 

“Yep,” Henry answered. “It’s Alec’s horse; I just 
help train him.” 

Joe Russo spoke up, “Why not show him the 
Black, Henry, and then we’ll let him draw his own 
conclusions*?” 

“Good idea,” said Alec, as he walked toward the 
back of the truck. 

He led the Black out on the ramp. “Say,” he 
heard Jim exclaim, “he is a giant of a horse !” The 
stallion shook his head. He was full of life tonight 
for he knew well that he was going to run. His 
small, savagely beautiful head turned toward the 
group of men below him. He drew up, made a single 
effort to jump which Alec curbed, and then stood 
quivering while the boy talked soothingly and patted 
him. 

Jake came up and Henry introduced him to Joe 
and Jim. “Say,” Jake smiled, “this is growin’ into 
quite a shindig, isn’t it?” 

214 



THE MYSTERY VIORSE 


Jim walked carefully around the stallion. 

“Watch out. He might kick, if you get too close.” 
warned Alec. “He doesn’t know you.” 

“Don’t worry! I won’t get too close to this fel« 
low,” Jim said. “I’m beginning to see what you 
fellows mean,” he added. “If he can run as well as 
he looks ” 

Henry disappeared into the truck and came out 
leading Napoleon. 

“Hey, what’ve you got here — another cham- 
pion?” Jim threw back his head and howled. 

“This is Napoleon.” Henry grinned. 

“He has sort of a quieting effect on the Black, so 
we always bring him along,” Alec explained. 

Jim Neville watched as Napoleon reached his 
nose up toward the stallion’s. “Maybe not such a 
bad idea, after all,” he said. 

A few minutes later they lifted Alec into the 
saddle. The Black pawed the ground. Jim Neville 
got too close and the Black’s teeth snapped as he 
tried to reach him. Henry held him back. It was 
plain to see he wasn’t used to seeing so many people 
around at one time. He tossed his head up and down, 
his heavy mane falling over his forehead. Suddenly 
he rose on his hind legs, tearing the bridle out of 

2lS 



THE BLACK STALLION 

Henry’s graspj his legs struck out, hitting Henry 
in the arm. 

Alec pulled hard on the reins and jerked him' to 
the side. “Black!” he said. “Down!” The men re- 
treated quickly to a safe distance. Jake was rolling 
up Henry’s sleeve, which was wet with blood. 

“Did he get you bad, Henry?” Alec asked. 

Jake and Henry were inspecting the wound. 
“Nothing broke,” answered Jake. “Just a bad cut; 
We’ll go up to the house and fix it !” 

“No, we won’t,” Henry said. “I came down here 
to watch this workout and I’m going to see it. I’ll 
take care of this later — ^you gotta take more’n a cut 
in this business.” 

“He sure is a devil !” Jim Neville yelled from the 
other side of the Black. 

“We got him excited, that’s all,” answered Henry. 
“First time he’s done that to me.” 

Again the stallion reared and Alec brought him 
down. “Get him out on the track, kid,” Jake yelled. 

The Black pranced nervously as they went 
through the gate. Once again Alec felt his body 
grow warm with excitement. He patted the crest on 
the stallion’s neck. “We’re off, fella,” he said. Alec 
looked back at the small group of men behind him. 
216 



THE MYSTERY HORSE 


They were all leaning on the fence, watching ea- 
gerly. 

Joe Russo’s voice drifted toward him. “That kid’s 
not going on any picnic,” he said. 

Alec grasped the reins still tighter and leaned over 
until his head touched the stallion’s. He knew full 
■well the danger that was his every time he rode the 
Black, especially when he let him loose on the track. 
The stallion would never hurt him knowingly, but 
once he got his head he was no more the Black that 
Alec knew — but once again a wild stallion that had 
never been clearly broken, and never would be ! 

Suddenly the Black bolted. His action shifted 
marvelously as his powerful legs swept over the 
ground. Fleet hoof beats made a clattering roar in 
Alec’s ears. The stallion’s speed became greater and 
greater. Alec’s body grew numb, the terrific speed 
made it hard for him to breathe. Once again the 
track became a blur, and he was conscious only of the 
endless white fence slipping by. His fingers grasped 
the stallion’s mane and his head hung low beside 
his neck. His only thought was to remain on the 
Black’s back and to stay conscious. His breath came 
in short gaspsj the white fence faded from his vision; 
desperately he tried to open his eyes, but his lids 

217 


THE BLACK STALLION 

seemed held down by weights — ^bells began to ring 
in his ears. Alec’s fingers tightened on the Black’s 
mane. He lost all track of time — then the world 
started turning upside down. 

It seemed hours later that he felt arms reach 
around his waist. Then the next thing he knew, he 
found himself lying flat on his back beside the truck. 
He looked up at the men grouped around him. Henry 
knelt beside him, his white handkerchief stained with 
large dark spots bulging around his arm. Alec’s eyes 
fell to his own hands. Long, black hair was clenched 
between doubled fists. He opened them and looked 
at the black wads. Questioningly he looked up at 
Henry. “How ” he began. 

“It’s all right, kid. You wouldn’t let go. Feel all 
right r’ 

“Kinda dizzy,” answered Alec. “Where’s the 
Black?” 

“He’s O.K. — ^put him in the truck with Napo- 
leon.” 

“Did I fall ofi, Henry?” Alec asked. 

Jake’s high-pitched voice reached Alec’s ears. 
“Fall off?” he said. “Boy, if that hoss was still 
running, you’d still be on him. Took a knife to get 
you off his back when he did stop, and then Henry 
218 



THE MYSTERY HORSH 

was the only one of us who could get near him.” 

“Fm glad I stuck on him,” Alec said. “Y’know, 
Henry, we’ve never seen that horse run his fastest 
yet. I just couldn’t seem to breathe that time.” 

“Takes courage to ride him, kid,” Henry an- 
swered. “Fm pretty proud of you, but let’s try get- 
ting to your feet. Better for you if you can walk 
around.” 

Alec swayed a little as Henry and Jake lifted 
him up, but gradually the earth stopped turning 
around and his brain cleared. He breathed in the 
night air deeply. 

Jim Neville came up. “Kid,” he said, “Fve seen 
a lot of riding in my day, but never any to equal 
that!” Jim then turned to Henry. “You were right, 
Mr. Dailey — he is the fastest horse we’ve ever seen. 
I can hardly believe what I saw with my own eyes 
but”— Jim held the face of a stop watch up in front 
of Henry — “I can’t deny this!” Then he turned 
bmsquely to Joe Russo. “And now Joe, we both have 
a deadline to make, so let’s get going.” 

“Right, Jim.” 

“Come around again — anytime you want,” Henry 
urged, “and we’ll let you see the grandest animal on 
four feet run without even charging admission.” 


219 



the black stallion 

Jim Neville’s eyes twinkled. “A lot of people are 
going to see that horse in action if I have anything to 
say about it!” he said. 

Alec felt the earth whirl around him again. “Hon- 
est, Jim,” he said, “do you think we could?” 

“I’m not promising anything, kid,” replied Jim, 
“but I’m going to start something or I miss my guess. 
Take a look at my column tomorrow. And now we 
do have to get going. Come on, Joe.” 

“I’ll go along with you and let you out,” said 
Jake. 

After they had gone, Henry put his arm through 
Alec’s and they walked back and forth until the 
blood once again was circulating through the boy’s 
legs. “I feel O.K. now, Henry,” he said. 

They climbed into the truck. Alec looked back 
through the small window, and saw the stallion 
peering anxiously at him. “Yep, mister,” he said, 
“that was quite a ride !” 

“Well, Alec,” Henry said, “I hope that whatever 
Jim Neville is going to do gets us in that race.” 

“You’re not hoping any more than I am.” 

The next day was Saturday. Alec rushed over to 
the barn immediately after breakfast. Henry always 
\20 



THE MYSTERY HORSE 


had a morning paper and probably he was already 
reading Jim Neville’s column. 

Sure enough, he was sitting outside reading as 
Alec came up. “What’s he say"?” the boy asked anx- 
iously. 

Henry grinned as he handed him the paper. “Read 
it for yourself.” 

Alec’s eyes swept over the headline — who is the 

MYSTERY HORSE THAT CAN BEAT BOTH CYCLONE 

and sun raider'? “Yes, I know,” Jim Neville wrote. 
“I’m the guy that said there wasn’t a horse in the 
world that could beat that ratin’ red bundle of dyna- 
mite — Cyclone, not even Sun Raider. Yep, and I’m 
the guy that wrote to Messrs. Volence and Hurst, 
owners of these thoroughbreds, suggesting the coming 
match between their horses on the twenty-sixth of 
June — ^just two weeks off. 

“This race in my mind — ^and I suppose in the 
minds of the whole American public — was to settle 
one thing: To see what horse was the fastest in the 
country ! Both Cyclone and Sun Raider had beaten 
everything they had met on the track, and it was 
only natural then that they should meet to settle this 
question of track supremacy. 

“But now, in my mind, this race will no longer 


221 



THE BLACK STALLION 

prove who’s the fastest horse on four legs, because 
I’ve seen a horse that can beat both of them. This is 
something I have to get off my chest, because you 
racing fans are going to crown the winner of Chi- 
cago’s match race as the world’s fastest horse — and 
it isn’t true. There is still another horse — a great 
horse, who can beat either one of them. 

“It’s only fair to tell you that this horse has never 
raced on a track, and perhaps never will — ^because 
he lacks the necessary registration papers. And now 
I find that I’m coming to the end of my column, so 
I’ll close with just this reminder that while you folks 
are acclaiming the winner of the coming Cyclone- 
Sun Raider race as today’s champion, I know of a 
horse — a mystery horse that’s right here in New 
York who could probably make both of them eat his 
dust!” 

“Say, that is starting something,” said Alec. 

“You said it, son; he’ll have everybody on his 
neck before this day is out!” 

“He didn’t come right out and suggest the Black 
running in the match race, though, Henry,” Alec 
said. 

“No — ^but he’s left the door wide open and you 
can bst somebody will suggest it.” 



THE MYSTERY HORSE 


“Gee, I hope it works, Henry. Just think, the 
Black against Cyclone and Sun Raider. Boy ! What 
a race !” 

“You said it !” Henry agreed. Then he paused for 
a minute. “Say, Alec, wonder if we did get the 
Black in the race — ^how do you think your folks 
would take it? About you ridin’, I mean.” 

Alec’s eyes met Henry’s. “They just gotta let me 
ride, Henry. They’ll understand, I’m sure, especially 
after we tell them how I’ve been riding the Black 
at Belmont. Funny thing, Henry — Mother decided 
last night that she’s going to Chicago middle of next 
week to visit my aunt for a couple weeks. She’ll be 
there at the same time as the match race!” 

“Whew,” said Henry, “that’s somethin’ !” 

“Mother isn’t interested in races; she probably 
won’t even go to see it! You know, Henry, as long 
as we don’t even know yet whether the Black is go- 
ing to be in the race, I won’t even mention it to 
Mother. If the Black does get in — I’ll talk it all 
over with Dad; he’ll understand.” 

“Hope so,” answered Henry. 

When Alec looked over the evening papers that 
night, he saw that Henry certainly was right about 

m 


THE BLACK STAI-EION 

everybody jumping on Jim Neville’s neck. The sport 
pages were filled with articles ridiculing Jim’s “in- 
sane idea” that there was a horse in America, yes — 
right here in New York that could beat the two 
champions ! 

Because Jim Neville’s column was carried in pa- 
pers from coast to coast, and because he was one of 
the foremost sports authorities in the country, his 
articles on the mystery horse aroused more and more 
curiosity with every day that passed. And in spite 
of the criticism that he was getting, Jim wouldn’t 
let the public forget about his mystery horse. Each 
day in his column he would carry a paragraph about 
him. Each night on his radio sports program, he 
would again mention him. 

One sports writer wrote, “Only a figure as well- 
known as Jim Neville could have created such a 
hullabaloo as is now going on over the merits of a 
mystery horse that Neville claims can beat both Sun 
Raider and Cyclone !” 

A week passed and the small snowball that Jim 
had started rolling continued to gain momentum. 
“Who is this mystery horse?” the racing public 
wanted to know. Jim’s only reply was that he had 
224 



THE MYSTERY HO R S E 


promised to keep his name a secret, but that he could 
get him in a moment’s notice. 

He called Henry and Alec on the telephone. 
“Don’t run him at Belmont any more,” he told 
them. “This is getting bigger than I had even hoped 
it would. We’ll have the Black in that race yet!” 

Another week passed. Alec’s mother left to visit 
her sister in Chicago. The match race was only one 
week off. 

Alec felt a little discouraged as he made his way 
toward the bam early one morning to give the Black 
a workout before he went to school. Time was grow- 
ing short — ^if they only had another two weeks, . . 

He met Tony coming out of the barn with Napo- 
leon. 

“Hello, young fella,” he said. “Ah, thees is da 
life.” He pounded his short, stocky arms against his 
chest and breathed in the early morning air. 

“Yeah,” Alec said. “Sure is, Tony.” 

Tony backed Napoleon into his wagon and started 
harnessing him up, “What’s the matter, young fella? 
You look kinda down in da dumps.” 

“I’m all right, Tony,” Alec answered. “Guess I 
was just thinking.” 

22.5 


THE BLACK STALLION 

“Too much thinkin’ doesn’t do nobody good,” 
Tony said wisely as he climbed into the seat. 

“Guess you’re right, Tony. See you later.” 

“You betcha,” came the reply. 

Alec led the Black out of his stall and went over 
him with a soft cloth. Then he clamped the long lead 
rope on his halter and led him out into the early 
morning sunshine. The stallion ran around the boy, 
kicking his heels high into the air. Then he came 
closer and playfully tried to nip Alec. “Feeling 
pretty good this morning, aren’t you?” Alec asked. 

A few minutes later he threw the saddle on him 
and rode him into the field. Somehow he always felt 
different when he was astride the Black. It was like 
being in a world all his own. Forgotten were his 
problems, the city aroimd him — ^it was like flying in 
the clouds. 

A half hour later he slipped from the stallion’s 
back and led him back into the bam. He had just 
finished feeding him when Henry came in. “I’m 
almost late for school, Henry,” Alec said, “Would 
you mind giving him the once-over with the cloth 

?” He stopped as he saw a wide grin on Henry’s 

face. 

226 



THE MYSTERY HORSE 


“Sure,” Henry said, “but read this before you go, 
lad!” He handed Alec the morning paper. 

Alec turned quickly to Jim Neville’s column. His 
heart seemed to stop when he read the headline: 

MYSTERY HORSE TO RUN IN CHICAGO MATCH RACE. 

He swelled all up inside, and for a minute he 
couldn’t see the paper — then it became clear again. 

“Yesterday,” Jim Neville wrote, “I received one 
of the most sporting letters that I have ever had the 
pleasure to receive. It was from Mr. E. L. Hurst, 
owner of Cyclone. His letter was short and to the 
point. He suggested that since the match race to be 
held in Chicago next week is just for the good of 
racing and the proceeds are all going to charity, he 
saw no reason why my mystery horse should not run 
against his horse and Sun Raider. Mr. Hurst said 
that he sincerely believed that Cyclone had never 
been pushed as fast as he could go, and there was no 
horse on earth that he feared. If the owner of the 
mystery horse believed that his horse could beat 
Cyclone, he would not object to his trying as long 
as it was satisfactory to Mr. C. T. Volence, owner 
of Sun Raider, too. 

“As soon as I received Mr. Hurst’s letter, I 

227 


THE BLACK STALLION 

phoned Mr. Volence in Los Angeles and read it to 
him. I asked him if he felt the same way about it, 
and he said, ‘Yes, definitely.’ He went on further 
to say that with the country talking so much about 
this mystery horse, it would save them running 
another match race next month. ‘Might as well kill 
two birds with one stone — he said, ‘Cyclone and 
Neville’s Folly!’ 

“Neville’s Folly, heh, Mr. Volence— just wait’ll 
you see him in action !” the article finished. 

Alec looked up from the paper at Henry. Slowly 
a grin spread over his face. Instead of feeling de- 
lirious with excitement as he had expected, he felt 
cool and composed. 

“He’s in, Henry,” he said. “He’s in!” The man 
and the boy looked at each other, and then turned 
and walked toward the stallion who had stuck his 
black head out the stall door and was looking at 
them curiously. 


228 



i6 

(Preparation 


yl LEC NEVER knew how he got through the rest 
imX of that day in school. All that he could 
JL, jLthink of was that a week from today he’d 
be racing the Black against Cyclone and Sun Raider ! 
Somehow, he still couldn’t believe that all this was 
happening to him — Alec Ramsay. 

That night after dinner, he walked into the living 
room where his dad was reading. He sat down in a 
chair and nervously turned the pages of a magazine. 
His father looked up from his paper. 

“Received a letter from Mother today, Alec. She’s 
getting a big kick out of Chicago and seeing your 
aunt again. Says if everything is O.K. here, she’ll 
stay three weeks. That all right with you?” 


229 



THE BLACK STALLION 

“Sure, Dad,” Alec smiled. “You’re a good cook !” 

His father laughed. “Exams at school will be 
starting pretty soon now, won’t they, son?” 

“Monday.” 

His father lit his pipe and then picked up the 
paper again. He turned to the sports section. “Ready 
for ’em ?” he asked. 

“Guess so.” 

The room became silent. Alec turned more pages 
of his magazine, and then looked up at his father 
whose face was hidden behind the spread newspaper. 
Thick smoke curled upward toward the ceiling. Alec 
cleared his throat and was just about to speak when 
his dad’s voice broke the silence. 

“All anybody can read in the sports section these 
days is news about that horse race out in Chicago 
next Friday. Wonder who the devil this mystery 
horse is that Jim Neville’s got into the race?” 

Alec’s pulses raced. “Dad ” 

“Yes, son?” 

“Dad, that’s what I wanted to talk to you about. 
You see— — ” 

His father once again let the paper fall on his lap 
and looked at him. 

Alec couldn’t keep his voice from faltering. “The 
230 


PREPARATION 

mystery horse — the mystery horse,” he stammered, 
“is the Black.” 

His father looked at his son in amazement. The 
room was still. “You mean, Alec, that the Black is 
the horse everyone’s been talking about — ^he’s the 
mystery horse?” 

“That’s right, Dad.” Alec rose from his chair and 
•went to the window; he drew the curtain to the side 
and then let it fall again. 

“But who’s going to ride him in a race like that?” 
Mr. Ramsay asked. 

Alec tried to swallow, but nothing seemed to go 
down. “I am,” he answered softly. 

The doorbell rang. “I’ll answer it. Dad,” Alec 
said with relief. He knew it would be Henry answer- 
ing his signal from the window. 

Henry came in and removed his old brown fedora. 
He gave Alec a knowing glance. “Evening, Mr. 
Ramsay,” he said matter-of-factly. 

“Hello, Henry,” Alec’s father answered. “Glad 
you’re here. You must be in on this, too. Now tell me 
what the devil’s been going on between you two and 
the Black? I had a hunch something was up but I 
never dreamed it was anything as stupendous as 
this!” 


the black stallion 

“It’s quite a long story,” Henry said. Then, for 
the next half hour he told about the training of the 
Black and Alec’s midnight rides at Belmont. Alec 
watched his father as he listened intently to Henry. 
How would he take it — ^he loved horses himself, but 
would he let him ride? It was a good thing Mom 
wasn’t here ! 

When Henry finished, his father turned to him. 
“Leave us alone a few minutes, will you, Alec, 
please?” 

Alec nodded and climbed the stairs to his room. 
Henry looked at Mr. Ramsay. “You’ve got to let 
him ride in that race,” he said. “His heart and soul 
are wrapped up in it ! Alec isn’t the same boy that 
you sent to India last summer, you know that as well 
as I do, but he’s a better man for it !” 

“But, Henry, it’s such a dangerous race for him to 
go into — and on that wild horse i” 

“Not any more dangerous than what he’s faced 
many times since that boat went down in the ocean. 
I’ve grown to know your boy pretty well within the 
last few months, and I can honestly say that he’s dif- 
ferent from any of us. He’s found something that we 
never will, because we’ll never go through the experi- 
ences that he’s had to.” Henry paused a few seconds. 



PREPARATION 


“Besides,” he continued, “I’d be mighty proud to 
have a boy that could ride that black stallion — some- 
thing, I’m certain, no one else in the world can do !” 

Mr. Ramsay rose and walked across the room. He 
didn’t say anything for a few minutes; then he 
walked toward the stairs. “O.K., Henry,” he said. 
“I’ll tell Alec he can ride !” 

Jim Neville telephoned Henry the next day to tell 
him that everything was all set for the Black. The 
freight charges to Chicago for the three horses would 
be taken care of from the proceeds of the race, as 
would all the rest of the charges to and from the 
track. Cyclone and Sun Raider were leaving Mon- 
day or Tuesday, so they could get in a couple of 
workouts before the race. 

Henry couldn’t tell him when the Black would be 
ready to leave; he had to ask Alec first. 

“Whatever you do,” Jim said, “don’t run him 
over at Belmont any more. I’m trying to keep the 
mystery horse’s identity a secret, because if it ever 
got out you’d be swarmed with reporters and it would 
only make the last few days all the more hectic. The 
Black is going to have enough excitement as it is !” 
Jim paused. “You’re sure he’s in good condition, 

233 



THE BLACK STALLION 

Henry?” he asked. “Boy, I’ve gone away out on a 
limb with him. Got to wondering whether I’d been 
dreaming about that night — that’s why I keep look- 
ing at this stop watch in my desk drawer; it’s the 
only thing that restores my confidence.” 

Henry laughed. “Sure,” he said, “he’s in tiptop 
shape !” 

A few minutes after he had hung up, Alec came 
into the barn. 

“Jim just called,” Henry said. “Everything’s all 
set for shipping the Black and stabling him out there 
— ^not going to be any expenses at all !” Henry looked 
out in the field at the stallion. “When can we shove 
off, Alec? Cyclone and Sun Raider are leaving to- 
morrow at the latest; that means they’ll have a few 
days to get accustomed to the track.” 

“Just got through talking with Dad again,” an- 
swered Alec. “He’s letting me ride imder one condi- 
tion — ^that I stay until I finish my exams.” 

“How long is that?” 

“I start ’em tomorrow and have my last one 
Thursday morning.” 

“Whew! And the race is Saturday,” said Henry. 

“Yes, but Dad called the station and found out 
there’s a train that leaves Thursday afternoon that’ll 

234 



PREPARATIO N 


get US in Chicago early Friday morning. It’s the only 
fair thing to do, Henry, and he has been swell about 
the whole thing.” 

“You’re right, son. And that isn’t so bad — gets 
us there a day ahead of time. Maybe it’s just as well 
we aren’t getting there too early, seeing it’s the Black 
we’re racin’.” 


Alec laid down his pen. There, his last exam was 
over ! He blotted his paper carefully and looked up 
at the clock. Almost noon. He’d have to hurry if they 
were going to make the three o’clock train. He 
handed his paper to the teacher and walked out of 
the room. 

In the hall he met Whiff and Bill. “How was it*?” 
Bill asked. 

“Not so bad,” Alec replied, going right ahead. 
They fell into step with him. 

“What’s the hurry?” Whiff asked. 

“Have to get home — some work to do,” Alec an- 
swered. There was going to be plenty of work before 
they got the Black on the train. 

“How’re you cornin’ with the Black?” Whifl 
asked. 


235 


THE BLACK STALLION 

“O.K. Why don’t you guys come around any 
more?” 

“No, thanks,” Whiff answered. “Not any more of 
that horse for me — ^he looks too dangerous !” 

“Me, either,” agreed Bill. “Talkin’ about horses, 
you going to listen to the big race — day after to- 
morrow?” 

Alec shrugged his shoulders. 

“Should be a corker!” Bill went on. “Wonder 
who the mystery horse is going to turn out to be?” 

“Probably some ham-and-egger,” chirped up 
Whiff. “Cyclone will walk away with it.” 

“Not with Sun Raider in the race,” Bill said. 
“Who do you think’s going to win, Alec?” 

Alec smiled. “Well the only one you fellows leave 
me is. the mystery horse — so I guess I’ll take him.” 

“You’re stuck,” Bill laughed. 

“We’ll see,” grinned Alec. He turned out the 
door. “So long, fellas,” he said. 

“So long.” 

When he reached home, he found his dad waiting 
for him. They didn’t talk about the race while eating 
lunch. Then they went over to the barn. Alec wasn’t 
nervous. Instead he was calm and eager to match the 
Black’s speed against Cyclone and Sun Raider. 
236 



PREP A RATIO M 


In front of the barn Alec saw Henry and Jim 
Neville- Both of them were going to Chicago with 
Alec and the Black. Then there was Joe Russo and 
another man with a camera. Just to the side of 
them stood a large horse van. Alec and his father 
greeted the small group. 

“Everything all set, Alec?” Henry asked. 

“r suppose you took that exam in your stride to- 
day,” Jim Neville kidded. 

“Hope so,” Alec answered. But his thoughts were 
turning forward. He nodded toward the van. “Guess 
we’re going to the train in style, heh, Henry?” 

“You bet!” Henry said. “And we’re going out to 
Chicago in style, too. Jim tells me we have our own 
private car waiting for us at the station !” 

“No !” Alec exclaimed. 

‘Y'ep. Isn’t that so, Jim?” 

“Sure,” Jim replied. “Cyclone and Sun Raidei 
got out to Chicago in special cars; there’s no reason 
why the Black shouldn’t. Besides a lot of people are 
coming from far and wide to see these three horses, 
so they have to be at their best.” 

“Swell,” Alec said. 

“Look what Jim gave us,” Henry said. He held 
out a heavy, black horse blanket with a white border 

23J 


THE BLACK STALLION 

mound it and white letters in the middle spelling 
THE BLACK. 

“Gee, Jim, that’s swell of you,” Alec said. 

“Can’t let ’em have anything on the Black.” Jim 
smiled. 

The stallion whinnied when Alec entered the barn. 
Alec took a soft cloth and wiped it over his large 
body. “Well, fella,” he said, “we’re off to the races.” 
Henry tossed him the new blanket and Alec snapped 
it around the stallion. “There,” he said proudly, 
“that’ll keep you nice and warm,” 

“Sure makes him look like the real stuff,” Henry 
said. 

“He is the real stuff.” Alec stroked the stallion’s 
neck. 

Then he led him out of the barn. The Black reared 
when he saw the small crowd. Then he lifted his legs 
high and stepped gingerly in a circle. 

“Let us take some pictures for the paper, will you, 
AlecT’ Joe Russo asked. 

“Sure,” Alec answered. “Come on, Henry, you 
get into it, too.” 

Ten minutes passed while the photographer 
snapped pictures. Even Alec’s father got into them. 
238 



preparation 


“Hope you’ll be able to use these photos,” Alec 
smiled, “after Saturday.” 

The Black reared again as the boy started to lead 
him up into the truck. He neighed loudly and his 
head turned toward the barn; his ears pricked for- 
ward and his eyes shifted from Alec to the barn. 

“What’s the matter, fella?” Alec asked. 

“I know,” Henry said, “every time we’ve put him 
into the truck, he’s had Napoleon with him. Now 
he’s wondering where he is !” 

“You’re right !” Alec said. “But we just have to 
get him in anyway. Come on. Black.” But the stal- 
lion reared again, and when he came down he pushed 
his head into Alec’s chest, shoving him back toward 
the barn. 

“Napoleon isn’t in there, fella,” Alec said. “He’s 
out working with Tony.” But the Black only pushed 
harder. 

Fifteen minutes later Alec was still trying to get 
him into the van. “Pm afraid it’s no use,” he said. 
“When he gets his mind set on something, nobody’s 
going to change it !” 

Jim Neville glanced at his watch. “Getting late,” 
he warned. “If we don’t start within a few minutes, 

239 


THE BLACK STALLION 

we’ll never make the train — ^and there isn’t another 
until tomorrow I” 

“Black,” Alec pleaded, “Come on !” But the stal- 
lion only pranced around him, his nostrils quivering 
and his eyes looking for Napoleon. Suddenly his ears 
pricked forward. From far down the street came a 
familiar voice, “Apples, carrots, string beans, pota- 
toes, cabbages, sweet peas.” 

“It’s Tony and Napoleon,” Alec exclaimed. 
“They’re on our street !” 

“I’ll get ’em,” yelled Henry as he made a dash for 
the gate. 

A few minutes later Napoleon loped down the 
street at his fastest trot. Tony and Henry sat in the 
seat of the wagon gripping the sides desperately as 
Napoleon dashed into the driveway. 

The Black neighed loudly ; his head turned toward 
them. Napoleon’s old legs made the gravel fly. He 
rushed to the Black and shoved his nose up at him. 

Tony and Henry jumped off the seat. ‘‘Mio Dio” 
exclaimed Tony, “what’s the matta with heem?” 

Henry told Tony how they had taken Napoleon 
with them when they trained the Black at Belmont 
and how now the Black was going to run in the big 
match race in Chicago. “And now, Tony,” Henry 
240 



PREPARATION 


finished, “we can’t get him in the van because we’re 
not taking Napoleon.” 

Jim Neville spoke up. “Tony,” he said, “would it 
be all right with you if we took Napoleon with us to 
the race?” 

Alec began to feel more hopeful. “Do you think 
we could, Jim?” he asked. 

“Sure, if Tony’ll let us. There’s plenty of room on 
the train, and we’re sure to find a stable for him out 
there. What do you say, Tony? We’ll have him back 
to you by Sunday night, or Monday at the latest. 
And to make everything square, we’ll pay you for 
Napoleon’s time !” 

Tony looked at Napoleon standing with his head 
beside the Black’s. He was silent a minute ; then his 
dark face creased into a grin. “Sure,” he said, “why 
not? But no money, thanks please. He’s been-a da 
good horse for fifteen years — now he’s gonna have 
da vacation.” 

“Atta boy, Tony,” Alec said. “It’s going to mean 
a lot to the Black- — ^and to us, too.” 

“You betcha,” Tony said proudly, as he put a 
caressing hand on Napoleon’s neck. 

“And now,” said Jim Neville, “let’s get going.” 

Henry led Napoleon up into the truck and Alec 

241 


THE BLACK STALLION 


followed with the Black. He was as docile now as he 
had been difficult before. 

A few minutes later they rolled down the drive- 
way. Alec sat between Henry and Jim. They waved 
to the small group standing beside the barn. 

“Good luck,” yelled Joe Russo. 

“Be careful, son,” his father called. “And put 
everything you’ve got into it !” 

“Take-a da good care of my Napoleon,” Tony 
shouted. 

Then they went through the gate. 

“We’re off,” said Henry. 



icago 


I T WAS two-thirty by Jim’s watch when they 
drove into the freight yards. “Just in time,” he 
said. 

Trucks laden with cargo for the trains pulled into 
the yards, their horns blowing. Men’s shouts rang 
through the afternoon air. Henry brought the van to 
a stop. “I’ll find out where we’re to go,” Jim said. 
“Wait here.” 

Alec looked back through the window. He could 
see the heads of the Black and Napoleon. The stal- 
lion was pawing at the floor. “Guess the noise and the 
ride’s made him kinda nervous, Henry,” he said. 

“Yeah, we’ll have to watch him. Wouldn’t want 
him to get too excited just before the race.” 

A few minutes later Jim returned. “Our car’s 

243 


THE BLACK STALLION 

down at the end,” he said. Henry put the truck in 
gear and moved in and out of the crowded yards. Jim 
pointed to a car. “That’s the one.” 

“I can back right up to the door,” Henry said, as 
he turned the wheel. “He’ll hardly know he’s getting 
into it.” 

When Henry brought the truck to a stop, Jim and 
Alec jumped out. They climbed into the train and 
Henry followed them. “Say, this is swell!” Alec 
said as he looked around him. A box stall was at one 
end and three cots were in front of it. 

“Not a bad layout,” agreed Henry. “The Black 
won’t mind this so much.” 

“We haven’t a stall for Napoleon, though,” Jim 
said. 

“We can put him right outside the Black’s,” 
Henry said, “and move our cots down this way.” 

After they’d moved the cots and Henry had 
bedded down the stallion’s stall with straw, Alec 
went to get the Black. 

He opened the rear of the truck and walked in 
beside him. The Black moved nervously. “Hello, 
fella.” Alec stroked his neck. Napoleon pushed his 
face toward him and Alec rubbed his nose too. 
“You’re both going on a long ride now,” he said. He 
244 



CHICAGO 


grasped the Black’s halter and backed him into the 
stall. The horse stretched his neck high into the air 
and his leg continued to paw the floor. “There, Boy,” 
Alec said. “Take it easy, now.” 

“Don’t bring Napoleon in yet,” Henry said. “I’ll 
need more straw if we’re going to bed him down and 
make him comfortable. I’ll go see if I can’t get 
some.” 

“I’ll go along with you, Henry,” Jim said. “I have 
to make arrangements to get this van back.” 

As soon as they had gone, Alec went inside the 
van and dragged Henry’s large trunk into the car. 
He opened it and took out Henry’s blazing green 
shirt and jockey cap. Friday he’d be wearing them! 
The same things even to the faded No. 3 that Henry 
had worn when he and Chang won the Kentucky 
Derby ! Alec’s throat tightened as he laid them care- 
fully back into the trunk. 

A short time later, Henry returned with a bale of 
straw. He spread it in front of the Black’s stall. 
“O.K. to bring Napoleon in now,” he said. Napo- 
leon’s ears pricked forward when he saw the BlacL 
He shoved his nose toward him. 

Jim climbed into the car. “Everythiij.g’s set,” he 
said. 


245 


THE BLACK STALLION 

Fifteen minutes later the train whistle blew. 

“Chicago, here we come,” Alec shouted. 

He tossed on his cot that night. The clattering of 
the wheels on the iron rails kept him awake. He 
heard the Black moving restlessly around in his stall. 
Alec rose and made his way quietly over to him. 
Henry and Jim’s deep breathing told him that they 
were both sound asleep. Napoleon, too, was sleeping. 

The Black whinnied when he saw the boy. “Shh, 
fella.” Alec rubbed the stallion’s head. 

The train rocked a little, and the Black shied, 
“Not any worse than a boat, though, is it?” Alec 
asked. The Black shook his head. For fifteen minutes 
Alec stayed with him. Then he gave a final pat. 
“Gotta try and get some sleep now, fella — we both 
need it.” 

He went back to his cot and lay down. He dozed 
off. He was dreaming of the coming race. Then he 
opened his eyes and stared at the ceiling. He had to 
quit thinking. He must get some sleep. He tried to 
concentrate on the rhythmic beat of the wheels on 
the rails. They seemed to say, “Chicago — Chicago — 
Chicago——” Alec dropped off to sleep. 

The next thing he knew, Henry was shaking him. 



CHICAGO 


Both he and Jim were already dressed. “We’re al« 
most there,” Henry said. 

Alec pulled on his clothes sleepily. 

“How do you feel, kid?” Jim asked. 

“All right,” answered Alec. 

“We’re entering the city limits now,” Henry said. 

“How far is the track from the station?” Alec 
asked. 

Jim looked at his watch. “About a forty-five min- 
ute ride,” he said. “It’s five-thirty now; if the van I 
wired for is waiting for us, we’ll be at the track by 
six-thirty at the latest.” 

“Let’s hope it’s there,” Henry said. “It’ll be better 
if we can get to the track before any people start 
roaming around.” 

The train pulled into the freight yards. Alec 
snapped the Black’s new blanket around him. Henry 
took care of Napoleon. As the train slowed down, 
Jim pushed the door of the car open. Trucks clat- 
tered beside the train. “Bad as New York,” Henry 
said. 

“I’ll see if I can find our van,” Jim said, jumping 
off the train as it came to a stop. 

The Black moved uneasily and Alec held him 
tighter. Henry moved Napoleon over closer to him. 

247 


THE BLACK STALLION 

The stallion’s startled eyes gazed nervously out the 
open door, then quieted as Napoleon shoved his head 
to'ward him. 

A van moved alongside the car. Then they heard 
Jim’s voice. “Back it up to the door,” he directed the 
driver. 

A few minutes later Alec led the Black into the 
van, followed by Henry and Napoleon. 

The early morning streets were deserted, and they 
made good time to the track. They passed the huge 
stands and then pulled into the gate entrance near 
the stables. 

The gatekeeper hailed them. “What do you 
want?” he asked. 

Jim spoke up. “I’m Jim Neville,” he said. “We’ve 
a horse here — for the race tomorrow.” 

“The mystery horse, heh?” The gatekeeper smiled. 
“We’ve been waiting for him !” He swung the gate 
open. “Take any stable you want,” he yelled at them. 
“Just don’t get too close to Sun Raider and Cyclone. 
Still,” he chuckled, “perhaps you’d better get close 
to ’em now — ’cause you won’t tomorrow ! Haw.” 

“Humorous sort of a guy, isn’t he?” Jim said. 

“He’ll change his tune,” said Henry. 




Alec peered back through the window at the 
Black. The stallion’s head was still shoved toward 
Napoleon’s. 

Fifteen minutes later, they had the Black in his 
new stable. They put Napoleon in the empty one 
next to him. The track seemed deserted in the early 
morning stillness. 

“Guess no visitors are allowed,” Alec said. 

“Cyclone and Sun Raider must be up the line a 
ways,” Henry answered. “The men in their stables 
will be around, soon as they hear we’ve arrived.” 

“And you won’t be able to keep the newspaper 
men out of here today,” reminded Jim. 

“We’ve got to keep them away from the Black, or 
there’s no telling what will happen,” Henry said. 

Alec and Henry then busied themselves around 
the stables making the stallion and Napoleon com- 
fortable while Jim went to see Cyclone and Sun 
Raider. Sponges, cloths, brushes were unpacked. 

Henry looked up and saw a crowd of men making 
their way toward them. “Here they come,” he said to 
Alec. “Sun Raider’s and Cyclone’s workouts must be 
over !” 

Henry walked out of the stall to meet them, leav- 

H9 


THE BLACK STALLION 

ing Alee with the Black. He saw the group was com- 
posed of reporters and stable hands as Jim had 
warned. “Morning,” Henry greeted them. 

“We’ve come to see the wonder horse,” one man 
laughed. 

“You mean the mystery horse,” another corrected 
him. 

“There he is,” Henry said, pointing to the Black, 
whose excited eyes gazed at them. 

Alec stroked his head. “Take it easy, fella,” he 
said. 

Some of the men started coming closer. 

“You’ll have to keep away from his stall,” Henry 
.said, stopping them. “He’s excitable and we want to 
keep him quiet.” 

“Temperamental, heh?” a reporter sneered. 

Henry’s Irish temper started rising. “No more 
cracks,” he said. “If you don’t like it where you’re 
standing, I’ll throw you out of here !” 

The men saw that Henry meant it, and they kept 
away from the small, wiry figure. 

After a few minutes, they broke up. “Maybe he 
won’t be so cocky after tomorrow,” said a stable 
hand. 

250 



CHICAGO 


“Don’t know how he got in this race, anyway!” 
said another. 

A short while later Jim came back. “Sun Raider 
and Cyclone look like they’re in good condition,” he 
said. “Why don’t you two go over and see them? 
I’ll keep an eye on the Black.” 

“Guess we will,” said Henry. “Gome on, Alec.” 

First they went to Cyclone’s stables. There was a 
crowd in front, and Henry and Alec mingled with 
it without being recognized. Cyclone was led out of 
his stall so the photographers could take pictures of 
him. 

He was a big horse — almost as big as the Black ! 
His coat shone a bright red in the morning sun. He 
moved gracefully around in a circle. His head was 
larger than the Black’s, and his eyes didn’t have 
that tense, savage look. 

“You can tell he’s Kentucky bom and bred,” 
Henry whispered. “He’s built for speed all the way.” 

Alec nodded. “He sure is streamlined,” he said. 

They watched while the photographers took shots 
of him. Then they went up the line toward Sun 
Raider’s stable. They saw him as he was coming 
in off the track. Alec gasped- — ^he was just about as 

251 


the black stallion 
big and powerful-looking as the Black ! His coat was 
pure white. His head was small and his neck rose in 
a crest like the Black’s. 

“Gee,” Alec said, “he almost looks like the Black.” 

“Yeah, he’s part Arabian, too,” whispered Henry. 
“He might prove to be the one we’ll have to beat. 
But we can’t forget Cyclone,” he said as he jerked 
his head backwards. “That horse has never been 
pushed to his top speed; he runs only fast enough to 
win.” 

“They’re both going to be tough to beat,” Alec 
said. 

“The fastest in the world — take my word for it,” 
Henry said. “But we knew what we were getting 
into.” 

“I still think the Black can beat them,” Alec 

^id. 



252 



i8 

ofhe TTlatck (R. ace 


T he day of the big race ! The eyes of tht na- 
tion turned upon Chicago. All morning long 
trains, buses, autos and planes roared into 
the city discharging thousands of passengers bound 
for the track. 

A carnival spirit swept over the city. Offices 
closed for the day, and everywhere one question was 
asked, “Who will win — Cyclone or Sun Raider?” 

“How’ re you doin’, Charlie?” asked a motorcycle 
cop of a policeman who was directing traffic at one 
of Chicago’s busiest comers, as he pulled up beside 
him. 

“Never saw anything like it, Pat!” came the 
answer “Where the devil they all coming from?” 

253 


THE BLACK STALLION 

Horns blew from the endless lines of cars that 
stretched far down the avenues. 

“I’m worn out myself. They’re just about packed 
solid from here to the track. They’ll never get all of 
’em inside!” 

“They’re cornin’ from all over the country to see 
this race. Boy, I’d like to be up there myself — ^to see 
Cyclone lick ’em!” 

The motorcycle cop kicked his motor over. “So 
would I,” he yelled above the roar. “But it’s going 
to be Sun Raider by three lengths !” 

“We’ll see. Say, what do you think of this mystery 
horse?” 

“Nothin’ much — ^guess everyone’s beginning to 
wonder how he got in the race anyway. He won’t 
figure in it at all — that’s inside stuff! See you 
later. ...” 

In a large apartment house, not far from the track, 
Alec’s mother and his Aunt Bess looked out the 
large living-room window at the slow-moving traffic 
below them. In the distance they could see the track 
already jammed with people. 

“Bess, did you ever see such traffic in all your 


^54 



THE MATCH RACE 


life'?” Mrs. Ramsay asked. “What on earth is hap- 
pening over there?” 

“Don’t tell me that you haven’t heard about the 
big match race that’s being run today. Everyone has 
been talking about it. Why, I even have tickets — I 
was going to surprise you !” 

“But, Bess, I’ve never seen a horse race in my life. 
I won’t know what it’s all about !” 

“There’s nothing to it,” her sister laughed. “The 
horse that gets around the track first wins ! I don’t 
go myself much, but this is something nobody should 
miss. For the first and only time Sun Raider and 
Cyclone are going to meet. You’ve heard of them. 
It’ll probably be the grandest horse race of all times. 
And if you think we’re not going to see it when we 
only live a quarter of a mile away from the track, 

why ” She looked out of the window. “Look at 

those crowds ! Come, Belle, let’s get our hats and 
coats and go so that we’ll get seats.” 

Mrs. Ramsay shook her head as she went for her 
hat and coat. “If my husband or son ever find out 
about my seeing this race, I won’t have a moment’s 
peace when I get home. I’ll have to take that horse 
of Alec’s right into the house! I told you, Bess, how 

255 


THE BLACK STALLION 

they’re both so crazy over him. I have all I can do 
now to keep everything under control. . . . They’d 
certainly love to see this race !” 

‘Tt is too bad they’re not here, but they’ll prob* 
ably listen in on the radio. . . 

A plane dropped out of the cloudless sky. Swiftly 
it circled the field and then came roaring down and 
rolled to a stop. 

The passengers hurried toward the door. “Just 
about time to make it, if we hurry,” one of them 
said. 

The stewardess called, “Bus is waiting directly 
ahead to take you to the track!” The passengers 
sprinted for the car. 

Alec’s father darted into a seat behind the driver. 
“Think we’ll get there before they start?” he asked. 

“Yeah, I think so. They always take some time 
getting those temperamental babies on the track!’* 
the driver answered. 

“Sun Raider always puts up a terrific fight be* 
forehand anyway,” the man who slipped into th^. 
seat next to him said. “He’s a lot wilder than Cy- 
clone.” 

“Might as well do his fighting then,” said a mau 
256 : . 



THE MATCH RAGS' 


behind them. “He won’t be anywhere near Cyclone 
once they’re off!” 

“Oh, yeah? It’ll be Sun Raider by two lengths 
today!” He turned to Mr. Ramsay. “Who do you 
think is going to win?” he asked. 

“I’m picking the mystery horse.” 

“Say, don’t you know that’s a publicity stunt,” 
the man answered. “I’ll bet you there won’t even be 
a third horse out there today !” 

“We’ll see,” Alec’s father said. “We’ll see.” 

Alec stroked the Black. “It’s almost time, fella,” 
he said. The stallion pawed at the floor of his stall. 
Outside a line of policemen kept the eager spectators 
away. In the distance Alec could see the stands 
jammed with people. Band music drifted toward 
them. Henry came back from looking over the track. 

“Fast as the devil,” he said. “Better go over and 
weigh in, son,” he said. He stopped and his eyes 
bli nk ed a little as he put a hand on the green shirt 
Alec wore. “Fits pretty good, doesn’t it?” he smiled. 

“Swell,” Alec answered. “So do the pants and 
the cap.” He put on the cap and pulled the long 
peak down over his eyes to show Henry. 

Henry straightened the Nximber 3 on Alec’s arm. 

257 


THE BLACK STALLION 

“They’ll bring you luck,” he said. “They did 
me. . . 

Alec weighed in and was on his way back to the 
stables when he passed the two jockeys who were 
riding Cyclone and Sun Raider. They looked much 
older than the pictures he had seen of them in the 
newspapers. 

One of them saw him. “Say, you’re the kid with 
the mystery horse, aren’t you?” 

Alec nodded. 

“So you’re actually going to ride in this race!” 
Sun Raider’s jockey grinned. “We thought you were 
just part of a publicity gag, didn’t we, Dave?” 

The other jockey pulled him by the arm. “Come 
on,” he said, “quit wastin’ time.” Then he looked at 
Alec. “Better take it easy in this race, kid.” They 
turned and walked away. 

Alec’s anger mounted as he walked toward the 
stables. Who did those guys think they were, any- 
way ! Just because they were old hands at this game 
they thought they owned the track. 

Henry had the Black out of his stall when he got 
back. 

“All set, kid?” he asked. 

258 



THE MATCH RACE 


The noise from the distance made the stallion 
nervous and he chafed at the bit in his mouth. Alec 
rubbed his neck. 

“Just a few things I want you to remember, Alec,” 
Henry continued. “There isn’t much to tell you about 
handling the Black — you know more about him 
than I do. You’re a good rider, and I’ve taught you 
all the tricks I know — ^now, it’s up to you to put them 
in use. Those other two jockeys are the slickest riders 
in the game. They won’t let you get away with a 
thing — but they won’t try anything that’s outside 
the rules; they’re smart but not dirty. They’re out to 
win, but so are you. Remember you’ve got all the 
horse under you that they have.” 

“I’m sure of that, Henry,” Alec interrupted as 
he looked proudly at the Black. 

“I can’t tell you to hold him back,” Henry con- 
tinued, “because you won’t be able to. Stay on him 
and ride like you never have before ! If the Black’s 
the kind of a horse we’ve been figuring him to be, he 
should win all the way !” 

Cyclone was the first out of the barn for the big 
race. He received lusty cheers on his way to the 

>59 


THE BLACK STALLION 

paddock. He was draped in a flaming red robe and 
Wore red blinkers. His two forelegs were taped. 

A few minutes later Sun Raider was led from 
the barn almost wholly concealed in a white woolen 
blanket. All four legs were bandaged. He pranced 
nervously and his small head turned viciously around. 
Another cheer went up from the crowd gathered 
around the paddock when they saw him. 

Then a hush fell upon the crowd as the Black ap- 
peared, covered in his new black robe and accom- 
panied by old Napoleon. Alec held him by the lead 
rope attached to his bridle. The stallion reared and 
Alec let the rope slip through his fingers until he 
came down. The Black’s eyes blazed when he saw 
the other stallions. Alec remembered the fight the 
Black had had with the chestnut stallion in Rio. 
He tightened his grip on the rope and walked him 
far behind the others when they reached the ring. 

The silence was broken by a man’s loud yell, 
“There’s the mystery horse !” Then everyone started 
talking. They hadn’t expected to see anything like 
the Black. “He’s even bigger than Sun Raider !” 
Alec heard one man exclaim. 

A few minutes later one of the track officials 
called, “Riders up !” 

260 



THE MATCHRACE 


The blankets were whipped off the horses. Henry 
saddled the Black and then boosted Alec into the 
saddle. “Let the others get out first, so there won’t 
be any trouble,” he said, as they went slowly around 
the ring. The Black’s gaze was on the horses far 
ahead of him. His nostrils quivered and he shook his 
head nervously. Alec knew that only Napoleon be- 
side him kept him under control. 

A long line of policemen kept the crowd back 
and made a path from the paddock to the track. The 
bugle sounded. The Black raised his head and his 
ears pricked forward. Henry led him toward the 
track. 

They stopped at the gate. Cyclone and Sun Raider 
were already walking past the grandstand on their 
way to the post. Henry looked up at Alec. “Well, 
kid, you’re on your own now,” he said quietly. “Go 
to it !” 

Alec’s heart pounded as he saw the solid mass of 
people stretched out before him. “O.K., Henry,” he 
said. Old Napoleon neighed plaintively as Henry 
kept him from following the Black out on the track. 

Every vantage point in and around the outer 
fences of the course was jammed with excited fans. 
Many perched on roof tops fully a mile from the 

261 



starting point. Their attention was focused on Sun 
Raider and Cyclone as they passed the stands. Then 
suddenly they saw a giant black horse, his mane wav- 
ing like windblown flame, coming down the track. 
Spectators rose in their seats and excited hands raised 
glasses to their eyes. 

“It’s the mystery horse !” shouted a well-known 
sports commentator to a nation-wide radio audience. 



THE MATCH RACE 


One hand left the microphone and picked up the 
program. “He’s listed as the Black and ridden by 
Alec Ramsay. He’s raising quite a commotion 
around here ! He’s one of the biggest horses that I’ve 
ever seen — if not the biggest. He’s black, coal black. 
He’s big and strong and doesn’t seem to want to go 
near the other horses. Alec Ramsay on his back is 
having a very difficult time controlling him. Lord ! 
I’ve seen plenty of horses in my time, but none with 
action like that ! I’d say that this horse that most of 
us have labeled ‘Neville’s Folly’ is going to be very 
much in the picture of this race. Yes, sir, it’s shaping 
up to be the greatest match race of all times or I miss 
my guess ! 

“Now he’s approaching the starting line. Cyclone 
doesn’t want to go near him and moves away. Sun 
Raider stands his ground and his teeth are bared. 
The starter’s having quite a time. That black horse 
is a devil! He wants to fight! They’re lining up. 
There he goes up into the air ! He’s plunging at Sun 
Raider, striking ! Listen to that black devil scream—* 
never in my life have I heard anything like it! It’s 
risen to such a high pitch that it’s practically a 
whistle— you probably all can hear it! There, Alec 
Ramsay’s got him down — ^that boy sure can stick on 

263 


i( 




f/ 


THE BLACK STALLIOK 

a horse. What a struggle is going on out there, folks ! 
Over eighty thousand people here, and I can say 
without fear of contradiction, they’ve never seen any- 
thing like this before ! Take it from me the Black is a 
wild stallion — ^never clearly broken. A savage on 
the race track ! 

“You folks who have seen Sun Raider know that 
they don’t come much wilder than he, but he’s cer- 
tainly met his match today — ^in fighting, anyway ! 
He’s backing away from the Black now! They’ve 
got Cyclone in between the two of them. That’s bet- 
ter. Alec Ramsay is managing the Black now. That 
boy is doing wonders — I wouldn’t be in his shoes for 
all the money in the world ! Sun Raider won’t stand 
still. He’s furious — ^he hates the Black. He’s broken 
out of line. There he goes striking at the Black ! He’s 
hit him ! Oh, oh, the Black’s leg is bleeding — ^that 
was a pretty hard blow. Alec Ramsay can’t hold 
his horse any longer — ^he’s on his hind legs and plung- 
ing at Sun Raider. There’s no way of stopping this 
thing ! Sun Raider is backing up again — ^he doesn’t 
stand a chance with that black devil ! Wait, there’s 
Alec Ramsay pulling on his horse’s head — ^he’s turn- 
ing him oif. He’s getting him under control again. 
He’s got him on the outside. Sun Raider doesn’t 
264 



THE MATCH RACE 


want to fight any more. He’s back at his position on 
the pole. 

“Looks as though the starter is going to send them 
off — while he’s got them there. The Black’s leg is 
bleeding pretty badly. Sun Raider doesn’t seem to 
be much the worse off for the fight. Alec Ramsay is 
leaning over looking at the Black’s wound. He’s 
getting off — She’ll probably leave the race, too bad 

The f re off! The starter wasn’t watching Alec 

Ramsay — ^he was climbing out of his saddle. 

“Cyclone and Sun Raider are fighting head and 
head as they flash past the stands. The Black is left 
at the post; he’s out of the race. No, no, here he 
comes after them! His jockey is only half in the 
saddle. Now he’s on ! He’s trying desperately to pull 
the Black to a stop; he doesn’t want him to run with 
his leg in that condition. He’s pulling furiously on 
the reins, but it doesn’t seem to be doing any good. 
The Black wants to run — ^he’s fighting for his head ! 
He’s almost pulling Alec Ramsay straight up in his 
saddle. Now he’s ripped the reins out of his hands! 
He’s close to a hundred yards behind, too far to 
catch up — -but he’s going to run ! 

“Cyclone has beaten Sun Raider to the first turn 
‘—they re both running under the whip. Each wants 

265 


THE BLACK STALLION 

to set the pace ! Cyclone’s jockey is deliberately pull- 
ing his horse up, so that Cyclone’s churning hind 
quarters are right in Sun Raider’s nose. That’s a 
shrewd move as it gives his mount a breather after 
that stretch sprint and forces Sun Raider to check 
his speed from running on Cyclone’s heels ! 

“But now as they round the turn, Sun Raider, the 
California comet, is moving up alongside Cyclone, 
and as they enter the backstretch they’re running 
neck and neck ” 

Suddenly a deafening roar rose from the stands. 
‘Took, look,” yelled the commentator hysterically, 
“The Black is coming up like a house on fire ! You’ve 
never in your life seen a horse run like this ! He’s all 
power — all beauty. The distance between him and 
the others is lessening. How it’s lessening ! I wouldn’t 
believe it if I wasn’t seeing it with my own eyes. 
The Black is running the others down ! Cyclone and 
Sun Raider are fighting for the lead going into the 
last turn. The Black’s almost behind them. What 
action! What a tremendous stride! The crowd is 
going crazy. Sun Raider is passing Cyclone on the 
turn and going into the lead ! Here they come down 
the homestretch — — ’* 

266 







THE MATCH RACE 


The crowd began to scream as the fighting horses 
came thundering toward them. Sun Raider was surg> 
ihg ahead. Cyclone was falling back — the Black 
had him! Sun Raider was two lengths in front, his 
jockey batting away with his whip. The Black 
started moving up. Now he was a length behind. No 
whip was being used on him — ^his jockey was like 3 
small burr lost in the stallion’s thick, black mane. 

Hysteria swept the crowd as the horses passed 
them for the second time — the finish line only one 
hundred yards away, “He’ll never get Sun Raider !” 
yelled the radio announcer. The stallion flashed by 
the stands going faster with every magnificent stride. 
With a sudden spurt he bore down on Sun Raider. 
For a moment he hesitated as he came alongside. 
The crowd gasped as the Black’s ears went back and 
his teeth bared. There was a movement on his back; 
his jockey’s hand rose and fell on the stallion’s rear 
quarters for the first time in the race. Into the lead 
the Black swept, past the cheering thousands— a 
step, a length, two lengths ahead — then the mighty 
giant plunged under the wire. 

The Black rounded the first turn and had en- 
tered the backstretch again before Alec was able to 

267 


THE BLACK STALLION 

slow him down. He knew that only the pain in the 
stallion’s leg enabled him to do it then. Finally he 
brought him to a stop. 

Alec forgot the cheering thousands as he slid, ex- 
hausted, from the stallion’s back. He bent down to 
look at the wound. There was so much blood! Alec 
took his handkerchief and wrapped it around the 
Black’s leg to try to stop the bleeding. “You 
shouldn’t have done it. Boy,” he said. 

A station wagon roared around the track toward 
them, leaving a cloud of dust in its wake. The Black 
reared as it pulled up to them. Henry jumped out 
and pulled a man behind him. 

“Is he hurt much?” he asked Alec anxiously. 
“Here’s the veterinary ” 

“Can’t tell. It’s bleeding pretty bad and I know 
it’s hurting him !” 

The veterinary bent down to examine the wound. 
Henry went to the wagon and returned carrying a 
pail of water, sponge and bandage. The veterinary 
cut off Alec’s handkerchief that was now covered 
■with blood. 

The voices of the clamoring thousands stilled, as 
they realized what was happening on the track. Ail 
eyes were upon the small group. 

^68 



THE MATCH RACE 


The veterinary straightened up. “He’s lost a lot 
of blood, but he has a leg like iron,” he said. “Give 
him a couple months’ rest and he’ll be as good as 
new!” 

Alec and Henry looked at each other and their 
eyes were moist. No word was spoken while the 
veterinary bandaged the Black’s leg. Then Henry 
broke the silence. “Well, Alec,” he said, “guess you 
and the Black did it!” 

The veterinary stood up. “O.K.,” he said. “And 
now I think they’re waiting for you over at the 
winner’s circle.” 

As Henry boosted the boy into the saddle, an 
avalanche of cheers rose from the crowd. The stal- 
lion’s ears pricked forward and he looked wildly 
around. Alec patted him on the neck. For the first 
time he realized that the race was over, that they had 
won. “You did it. Boy,” he said proudly. “You did 
it !” The blood raced through his veins and his heart 
pounded against his ribs as the crowd cheered them 
on their way back. The stallion reared as they ap- 
proached the grandstand. 

Thousands of pairs of eyes watched the Black as 
he pranced out there beyond the crowd. He did not 
want to come closer. Yet he did not seem to fight his 

269 


THE BLACK STALLION 

rider. Some of the crowd broke through the police 
line and rushed toward him. They stopped suddenly 
when he reared, and moved back quickly as he came 
toward them, head and tail erect. His action was 
beautiful, springy, and every few steps he jumped 
with marvelous ease and swiftness. Experts shook 
their heads knowingly at the Black’s performance. 
“Here,” said one old man, “is the greatest piece of 
horseflesh that ever set foot on any track !” 

Alec rode the Black up to the judges’ stand, and 
into the winner’s circle. The stallion stood still for 
the first time. Alec and Henry could hardly believe 
their eyes. Even flashlight bulbs exploding close at 
hand only caused him to toss his head. They put the 
horseshoe of roses around his neck. 

Alec looked around at the crowd below him. Sud- 
denly he stopped — could that be his father? “Dad,” 
he yelled. “Dad I” His father turned and waved. 
“Henry — ^look ! There’s Dad over there !” 

Henry pushed his way through the crowd and was 
halfway back with Alec’s father when a familiar 
voice made them both turn. 

“Looks as though we’re all here!” said Alec’s 
mother. 

“Belle!” gasped Mr. Ramsay. 

270 








THE MATCH RACE 


She put a hand on her husband’s arm. “I’ve never 
had such an afternoon in all my life,” she said. 
“From the time I saw Alec come out on the Black 
and couldn’t do anything about it, until the end.” 
She paused and looked at Alec sitting proudly 
astride his horse. “But now all I care about is that 
it’s over and he’s safe.” 

“We all should be mighty proud of him,” Henry 
said as he led the way toward Alec. 

The governor of the state had given Alec the Gold 
Trophy emblematic of track supremacy, when Alec 
saw both his dad and his mother with Henry. His 
mouth dropped open, and he forgot to listen to the 
governor who was talking to him. He wasn’t seeing 
things — they were both there ! He waved ; his throat 
was too tight to say anything. The governor kept 
talking. The Black shook his head and pawed the 
ground. 

Cameras clicked, motion picture cameras ground 
away, radio announcers dragged their mikes after 
them as they simultaneously talked and battled their 
way through the crowd. 

Finally the governor was through. The crowd 
cheered and Alec slid off the Black. Henry um 
saddled the stallion. Suddenly a line of policemen 

273 


the BLACK STALLION 
pushed through the crowd. Following them came 
Jim Neville leading Napoleon. The stallion whin- 
nied and threw his head high into the air. Old 
Napoleon answered and thrust his nose up to the 
Black’s. “Nice going, kid !” said Jim. “I knew you 
two could do it!” He nodded at Napoleon. “He was 
almost going crazy back there — ^wanted to do a little 
congratulating himself !” 

“He belongs up here, anyway.” Alec laughed. 

The radio announcers pushed their way through 
and rushed up to Alec. “ — ^broke the world’s record !” 
one of them was saying. Then they were pushing the 
mikes in front of him. They motioned for him to say 
something. 

Alec hesitated a moment. “The Black was every 
bit as good as we believed him to be,” he said. “We 
knew he had it in him, and he proved it today !” 

The announcers then broke in and started giving 
the history of Alec and the Black. Alec caught Jim 
Neville’s eye. He had told them! 

The owners of Sun Raider and Cyclone came up 
and congratulated Alec. “I’ve never seen anything 
like him as long as I’ve been around the track,” Mr. 
Volence said. 

m 



THE MATCH RACE 


“That goes for me, too!” said Mr. Hurst. “I 
don’t suppose you’d consider selling him?” 

“No, sir.” Alec answered proudly. “You’re going 
to hear a lot more about this fella !” 

“I’m afraid of that,” laughed Cyclone’s owner. 

Answering the pleas of the hundreds grouped 
around them, Alec took a few roses from the huge 
bow of flowers draped around the Black’s neck, and 
then threw the rest of them into the throng. In a 
few seconds the souvenir hunters had ripped them 
apart. 

The Black half-reared and old Napoleon moved 
closer to him. Alec smiled at Henry and his mother 
and dad. He rubbed the Black’s nose, and then led 
the huge stallion through the crowd — ^back to his 
victory oats. 


